Workers of all countries, unite!

a-z

TWO-WEEK MAGAZINE.
Organ Center. Committee of the All-Russian Propetkupt Council.

Publication of the State Publishing House.

Editorial office and office address: Moscow, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 26-30.
Reception with the editorial secretary daily from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.

L No. 3. August. 1918

GA\
5 CONTENTS: Motives of working poetry, -V. / Tolyansky, Our criticism. St., 2nd.—r
A. Boedanov, Club work, - Art. Krietsov. Class theater.—K. ai, k
convocation, All-Russian conf. prol. k.-pr. org Abstracts
club —St. Krivtsov. Representation norm and work plan E NAYA
Bureau. Chronicle of "Proletkult": In the province.—S. Aryansov. Bibliography: Ah, God-
] Danov, “Red Star” and “Engineer Manny”, -S. D; J. Tierso. “Celebrations and ||
|| p) songs of the French Revolution,” -T, R. Two reviews. -A. Oh, From reaction, © || »

Motives of working poetry:

(Since the October Revolution, when the proletariat proclaimed its
dictatorship in order to lay and strengthen the foundation of a new life in new societies
relations, the question of proletarian culture arose sharply. A lot
talk and write about proletarian science, proletarian art, about the proletarian
Tara poetry, etc. p.:

Unfortunately, the authors of brochures, articles, reviews and simply chroniclers, regi-
striving cultural and educational work among the proletariat, in large
in most cases they do not have a clear idea of what proletarianism is
culture, how the process of ‘replacing the old culture with the new culture’ will go, also
not revealed, but already coming. Any educational work, as it were
it is far from defending a century of proletarian culture, they bring it under the broad
broadcast section: “Proletarian Culture”.

Their idea of labor poetry is even more vague. There is no ss-
absolutely any historical perspective that would help the reader -
to the worker! and the worker-poet to understand his own moods and experiences -
determine; where they were born, what they were inspired by, will they find their place?
give birth to new thoughts and worries of a rapidly flowing life, or foreverwill sink into oblivion,
like something experienced long ago, buried quickly by time; and just be
historian, leafing through the yellowed pages of proletarian magazines and ©bo] -
niks, will reconstruct from them the spiritual appearance of the proletariat in its past.

All these questions are important. Without permission, it is difficult, even impossible, to resolve them.
reveal and unite elements of a purely class proletarian peichology and
to formulate the worldview of the working class in a holistic, coherent system.
Long ago, even V. G. Belinsky said that poetry is a reflection of life, itself
life If this is so, if we delve deeply into the essence of the question of flying
We owe special attention and love to our culture, bright and joyful.
boviu' to treat working poetry, so that through the most thorough 'scientific
analysis to separate the remnants of the past that are coming to light, for now
pale, the sprouts of a new psychology, born in the grove and storm - in fiery
creative in the wake of the revolution, in the consciousness of the irresistible power of the collective
a lot of labor as the only solid foundation for the future system of life.
2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 3

T,

Proletarian poetry originates as the poetry of the oppressed masses of the people.
At first there is absolutely nothing in her that would be characteristic of
the proletariat, as a special class, ao vdu socialist society. And this
quite: understandable.

During the period of initial accumulation; when mana still blooms everywhere
invoice production, when the bourgeoisie is “grimy,” as M.E. put it.
Saltykov-Shchedrin, was just conquering the field of her exploitation, carrying with
<0b-th rudeness, vulgarity and ruin everywhere, the worker class in modern
there was no sense of the word. The ruble, penetrating the villages, attracted the poor in the city
but, strangled and downtrodden, it did not declare itself there as a class force. She
she was tightly bound by many ties and fetters to the village; firmly in it
petty-bourgeois prejudices and hopes that maybe fate will help “break out”
into people”, become the owner himself or return to the village to be a
kim peasant. There was noOletary, but there was a craftsman. And ours
theorists were still arguing about whether to be or. not to be “boiled in a factory”
"cauldron" to the working class, which came out so decisively in the political
ski struggle in 1848 and 1874 in the West. Europe. At that time they were still fresh in
people's memory of the picture of serfdom. A new form of popular oppression
in the minds of the broad masses, help was naturally associated with the oppression, and new
moods were closely intertwined with age-old experiences born in
fortress village,

“It’s painful here, everyone is being dragged to the grave with a yoke...
Young sons, comrades of labor,

From their native hut they go to multiply
Yard crowds of 'exhausted slaves'

wrote A.S. Pushkin about the Russian village, the landowner's estate; similar
The picture was also observed during the initial accumulation of capital. "Comrades
labors" they went to the city, to the factory, as if to hard labor. Languishing from the unbearable
16-18 hour work a day, in unbearable hygienic and moral conditions
viah, they multiplied the “crowds of exhausted slaves.”

The poetry of the advanced Lamokoyatic intelligentsia of that time would be
penetrated by our roaring desire, as N. A. Nekrasov said:

“...Sing of your ‘sufferings,
Amazing in patience: people,

And at least quit. single ray of consciousness
On the ‘path that the forest leads you’.”,

This imprint was deeply reflected on the worker's muse. Here's how to live your life
This task is understood by F. Shkulev, a worker in the eighties:

“Be kind, don’t make friends with evil,

Do not pour on palaces and chambers,

For all the oppressed, fight for the truth,

Be honest in the pitiful patches.

Know that happiness is not in gold, not in the noise of praise

From the idle proud crowd. and
Be honest, reasonable, truthful›. *)

| What's proletarian about that? Any poor man could have written such a thing: peasants
nin, artisan, tradesman, minor official, folk teacher, etc. n. Author
naively dreams of some abstract truth; which will triumph, and about evil,
which will be defeated. To do this you just need to be “honest, reasonable,

1) V. Fritsche. “Proletarian Poetry”, Moscow, 1918.

No. 3 ROYAL CULTURE. Z

truthful." This is the style and mood of all writers who love the people. F. Shkulev
does not feel like a member of a new class, the creator of a great future; he's his
does not even see, and therefore does not realize, where the deliverer will come from and how he will come
det. The poet does not know his own path; he doesn't have a bright star ahead that
would illuminate his difficult, suffering path. Poeg. not a fighter-blacksmith, and a factory
for him it is exclusively a “stuffy | cage” from which he wants to escape
and run to his village, There he seeks his happiness. ,:

“Walk, walk, my brown horse,
And my plow, don’t be stupid! ‹
The drooping weeds rustle all around,
The sky shines high!..

. We are free birds with you

From dawn to dawn. .

And—even under a simple roof—

Happy as kings!” 1)

This is how M. Savin, a worker from the nineties, speaks. Despite all our
sympathy for the hard worker - the peasant, we are forced to admit that
contentment under the “roof of idleness” is possible relatively rarely, with special
conditions of economic life, and leads, of course, not to socialism, but to petty bourgeoisie
<tw. How far is it from this “contentment like kings” to the consciousness of mo.citrudovore
collective and its role in the history of class struggle.

Similar motifs appear quite often among modern poets.
workers - for some they predominate, for others - as an exception. This explains
This is because the Russian worker kept in touch until his very last days ©
“in the village, 'Gam his father and mother, often his own family and even a piece of land.
The worker has already understood the role of his class; he is desperately fighting for his liberation.
tion, but the “power of the earth” is still strong over his soul, and the mood of the earth is instinctively
actively swarming in its creation.

Here are the poems of S. Lukashin. Aztor was in England, France, America,
"Australia. He observed a lot, felt a lot, understands very well
in matters of class struggle. And yet there are still a lot of peasants in his soul -
“Skish layers that were not erased by either factory life or wanderings abroad.
Nitsei. In his poem: "Towards Liberation", dated 25,U, 16 r.
®©n says:

“Across the expanses of fields there is moaning and crying

And women. and children, their cries do not stop,

But only freedom’s enemy, the executioner, triumphs,

What villages cover cities with bones...

“Worker-hard worker, for fear of cruel enemies

Drop your chains! Bloody Dawn

It's already on fire, the end is here!

In the heat of the struggle the throne of the king will fall,
The people he crushes are moving towards liberation”?).

b./

By the way, the worker never once remembered either his factory or his working class.
a collective about which he speaks vividly in other poems. Heavy thoughts
discussions about the fate of their native homeland brought the fields and people to the fore.
The poet seems to have ignored the role of the proletariat and the city; he recognizes her more as his
mind, theoretically, - in his soul, deep inside, sits the village and the people.
Sometimes an author, obsessed with village thoughts, falls into apathy, so out of character
proper to the proletariat. The petty bourgeois element holds this in its clutches,
and from the thirst for struggle and active faith in a bright future, he goes over or

1) Ibid.
1) S. Lukashin. "Poems". Ed. R.S.-D.R. P, Orekhovo-Zuevsky District Com.

1918

1*
4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 3

Schansky dreams of a well-fed life or To hopeless melancholy. Imitating I. S. Niki-

tina, S. Lukashin writes:

“Forces starved |
I'm at work

‹ Poverty crushed
Bitter me.
Can't give it back to me now
Days gone by
And my native village

Let's buy horses,
Let's clean out the house

` Let's raise children.

There will also be a cow
We'll all start
Let's live again
Without fear of scrip... `

And his family,.. } Ten years of work!.,
We had to hire ] I was tired...

To the factory with you, you evil fate,
We thought we'd wait. How to get rid of you?
See your native land. Be my car
Let’s make money, they say, stop pushing!..” 1)

The working-class poet is crushed by the petty bourgeois peasant. Ten
years of work at the factory did not satisfy Moschan's desires; there is neither home nor co-
ditch, and the author hopelessly and quickly asks evil fate how to get rid of it
and he wants to stop mother’s loser.

The same notes are heardin the song of the worker M. Podlesny:

“The thin foundation is torn, Oh, bitter, black chaff
My shuttle is barely moving. In the bread of a poor slave. l
The tears have drowned out the word, Weave, you won’t end up in torment,
The ceiling in the hut is dark, It lowers the edges..."
Like gray choletine, why don’t you break off,
How long is my tedious fate, my bitter lot? *).

The worker-gkach is completely in the grip of the same sentiments as S. Lukashin. Dog-
Simism, so characteristic of dying classes and groups of society, in particular
petty-bourgeois ruining peasantry, owns the soul of the poet. Needed
to fight ‘for your future, you need to realize that. life in a struggle, in a bold impulse,
in boldness for his ‘ideal, and the poet humbly’ and melancholy’ weak-willedly reproached
reveals fate:

“Why don’t you break off,
Is my fate bitter?

The author does not think about others like him. He is looking for a solution
individually, only for himself alone, and finds it in death. Proletariat
doesn't look at life that way. He is “turbulent, rebellious, like fiery lava.” So'
he accepts death as a physiological inevitability, but he does not call for it
to yourself as a deliverer.

Shkulev, Savin, Lukashin and Podlesny are the most authentic workers. But
call such their psesia proletarian. Of course you can't. It's even more funny
look for any grains of new culture in it: These moods feed
with its roots in the past, irretrievably consigned to history; support

them - to go against life, not to understand its laws and get in the way’ you are a slave‹ -
what class ahead,

t
When above the Red Plains, among forests and villages, here and there st: whether

factory chimneys rose, - when the roar of cars began to be heard day and night
and the whistling of drive belts - when the plant began to absorb not only the local

1) Ibid.
2) “Our songs”. Issue 2. Moscow. 1914
No. 3 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 5

laziness, but newcomers who said goodbye to their native village, - when
under the general weight of labor and factory bondage, slowly and weakly, but already beginning
<the working collective is laying down, new motives are breaking through in the poetry of the working class
although estill not inspired by the revolutionary spirit of the proletariat’ and not. conscious
until the end. }

The worker still curses his forced hard work, his joylessness
life, but he curses not “fate” in general, but certain social
new relationship through which he lives: the life of a slave. Factory and machine
They suck all the strength out of him. Factory and machine—new ways of life—prisons
and a vampire. :
“A little sleep,” a shrill beep,—

Life will awaken in the cracked houses,
And the proletarians with a curse on their lips -
P ›allow the machines to suck the juice of life" ‚ `

`V. Alexandrovsky 1).

“Turning into a mechanical being, into a simple appendage of a machine, deprived of
thanks to exorbitant labor, guests are able to fight for their fair share
the worker does not realize that in the whirlwind and noise of the turning wheels a new
execution, new thoughts, a army of strong fighters for a brighter destiny. Through the mouth of Rosenfeltz
he complains bitterly:

“The cars are spinning and roaring wildly,
[And, listening to their howl, I became sadly silent.
I disappeared without a trace among the strange abyss.
I am also a machine among a mass of others.
My feelings are dead, all my thoughts are dead.
All that I loved, what I lived with forever,
\Holy hopes, dreams and aspirations,
My work suppressed all the best in me,
The wheels flash in crazy motion,
“And my brain is clouded and oppressed,
And it seems to me that someone’s terrible eyes
They are watching me inquisitively and vigilantly
`And he always told me from morning until midnight:
You’re a machine, nothing more, brother!”

How much pessimism, hopelessness, melancholy and slavish submission you have again
feel in every line, Is life worth living!? Will I be able to suffer when I...
Is it so hopeless and dark?! Pat finds no way out, just like his predecessor.
nicknames He is still a slave chained to the car. He humiliatedly fell silent while listening to the howl
them." In this “howl” he did not yet catch any new, inviting, rebellious ideas and melodies.

` Later, when the worker begins to realize the power and significance of labor, he gradually
Penno comes to the conclusion that everything in this world was created by his hands. This motive
still exists in poetry today, and is found in everyone. Awareness of one’s role gives”
spanriatu moral strength to overcome pessimism and the accompanying
his lack of will. And it is quite natural that poetry begins to acquire joyful
fighting character. Through the mouth of I. Eroshchin, the “Gariat” was proudly proclaimed, without any doubt.
hesitation and hesitation states:

"Chambers, factories, ‚Houses and factories

Houses, ships, And a magnificent palace?
Cars, roads, - I, I answers

That they lay down everywhere... The working people...

Who is this? built, - don’t even glance at Wood, -
I could build everything - Everything was created by me... *

1) “Our dogs” Vol. 1. Moscow, 1913
?) “P. Pravdy", 4, TU, 914
Ershin not yet

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 3.

1
distinguishes the proletariat from the mass of all working people, in

what category can we include the working petty bourgeoisie; his consciousness
the situation is not yet clear; but he has already acquired the strength of labor, and nothing here will weaken him.

Others write more specifically; in their poetry in the role of a fighter and creator of new life
It is not the working people in general who are speaking out, but the mighty proletarian army. This one and

no move is made

immediately; there are many poems of intermediate moods, in

in which the authors say goodbye to the village, it no longer gives them a better share, and they
to the city so that “another link will be woven into the chain.” Ya. Berdnikov's poems
"Batrak" admits that

"I'm tired of dressing up

I'm fed up with dirty dirty trash...
To languish in fruitless melancholy,

About the need to sing songs only....
Give me a heavy hammer."

In search of happiness, a farm laborer goes to the city.

Iv. Loginov on

“There in the circle of the factory family
I'll get up early

For the miserable sufferers
(Forging happiness with a hammer" 1).

He writes on the same topic with an even greater understanding of carnage:

“The expanse of native fields”

I left forever;

I didn’t notice the controversy,
There is a growing need there.

I came without’ regrets

From native fields to vavod,

Where is the movement and aspiration>,
Where is the hasty move? forward." *)

Conscious of its strength, the historical inevitability of the victory of the working class
above the bourgeois worldism V. Torsky in the poem: “Stream” adamantly

assures:

“We are strong in our flow,
Our aspiration carries us into the distance...
What barriers, what constipation?!
We'll make a way through the mountains,

About the free path to life

We will always find ourselves” 3).

And another worker, Vilka, emphasizing the moral strength of the struggling
proletariat, declares the bourgeoisie

“You will not hear our complaints,

You won't miss the tears and shit...

We won’t go to make you feel sorry for you, we won’t ask...
We laugh, we laugh; let's sing:

By dying, we forge our happiness.

Happiness for future joyful days" 4).

We see what a sharp change has occurred in the worker’s soul. From the dowry
overwhelmed and downtrodden, a weak-willed pessimist who does not know the path on which
search and he grows into a proud iron figure of a fighter, tirelessly, without

1) “P, I 26, 1, 914
?) “S. Slave. Newspaper". 2, y, 914
3) “P. Truth." 27, [U 944

4) “S. R. Newspaper.

29, 1, 914
OO PROLETARIAN CULTURE. | 7

break forging his happiness, and believes that, despite all the failures,
fleeing in such a great and difficult goal will be achieved by Militancy, He
knows that the Groletariat:

Suddenly he snatches it with a merciless hand
Some new world of darkness and blood,
And happiness will grow like flowers in the fields,
And it will become the essence of both I and dreams - ,
Everything will be joy."

Emil Verhaeren.

There are no previous moods; there is already a great awareness of the importance of the city and the flyover
riata, however, this poetry cannot yet be classified as purely class; she
too general and poorly formed, the paths to
socialist future. Worker poets more than once stray from the general democratic
tic, revolutionary motives. Chanting the brew of new life, they are crushed
by the tsarist regime and capital, together with other strata of society, their future
ardent opponents, but at the moment also oppressed, caught
express their workers’ muse, in close unity with all bourgeois democracy,
sing of the people's suffering and ulcers of the giant city, which in its frenzy
The whirlwind of life, like an octopus, swallows up victim after victim. Examples can be
bring hundreds.

Hunger, the backbreaking labor of the proletarian, the lordship and idleness of the capitalists,
miner, lamplighter, weaver, work accident, outskirts,unemployment,
strike, lockout, prison, escape, half-starved, half-sick woman of the street,
basement and corner - in a word, the whole working life with all its big and small
attracts the poet with joys and sorrows. He looks at everything from the point of view of not ‹-
free with his social position - from the point of view of a fighter; om wanted to re-
return the world in his own way, but in his poems the heads of that revolutionary still sound
Tsionera - democrat. There is also a revolutionary - a socialist. The poet sees that

"Predators and servants of capital

A luxurious feast is celebrated on bones,

Everyone is cheerful, - smiles on their lips, - `

It wasn’t wine in the glasses, but blood sparkling.” ,
V. Alexandrovsky. 1)

He also outlines the path to liberation, but is not clearly aware of it.

"Only in the city are possible
Both movement and struggle.

And the plains are hopeless—
Such is the fate of the plains.
Further, further from the plains.
In the kingdom of factories and machines.
To the city noisy and harsh,
| Where is the mystery of new life? Yves, Loginov, *}
The poet is already

“I became friends with the wind of will,

'There was an unbridled scope

And the silence of native expanses,

And soft earth in flowers...

Enveloped by the springs, he came

“To the solemn whistles...
To the gardens of iron and granite,

In the alleys of stone houses." M. Gerasimov. 3)

*) “Our esni.” Vol. 1. Moscow. 1918
2) “Collected. prol. writers." Ed. Sail. Ptg.
$) “Collected. prol. writers", Ed. Surf. 1914
8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 3

The proletarian sees how the struggle is in full swing, but he often breaks away from his work.
of the collective, falls into individualism, placing it on the individual. personally-
“those tasks that can only be solved through collective efforts. This affects
< on the one hand, the influence of bourgeois culture in its individualism and
moral exaltation of a self-sufficient personality,—6© on the other hand, the most
the nature of the revolutionary struggle. Underground work brought forward professional
revolutionaries' cash; their devotion, dedication and nobility,
great trials and suffering in exile and hard labor and at the same time unyielding
stubbornness and fanatical faith in the rightness of the cause of the revolution made these lonely,
‘check with heroes, excl.exciting engines of struggle.

The poetry of this moment is of a propaganda nature. She greedily
is absorbed by the broad working masses, finding an echo in their hearts, now one, now another.
goy side. She does. their own business, uniting the broad masses with homogeneous
mood of discontent, thirst for battle, and confidence in victory, the Coming
dawn and the rising fiery sun are favorite images of the worker-poet.

All this poetry, however, is just that, a prelude to the real proletarian
poetry, its preliminary. step. Only in the future. lush. flower and
the liberated one will open with a victorious sounding chord. soul, working class.
Now, in the poetry of a transitional mood, he is just yet. getting ready: for wellness
and a terrible battle, so that later, in. the kingdom of universal free labor to reveal
your spiritual, class “I” in all its beauty and mighty majesty.

no

We move on to the motifs of labor poetry, born in the most recent
odes and days. In the midst of oppressive darkness, the proletariat is building its “Workers’ Palace.”

"On the dark graves, from the rubble of the Past,
From the laughter and tears of weary hearts,
We are proud to build, we are building
Workers' Palace...

The creators and builders of this charming “building of the Future” fall alone
after another, but those who remained are full of indestructible faith, tempered at the furnace of energy
and continue their work. There will be a palace

"He will stand in the fog of the silent ones,
‚ Like the sun, it will dispel the mirages of fate,
We will come with an iron army, we will come.
No tears, no. chains are not slaves."
A. Pomorsky 1).

Here we have the collective will of the worker, the revolutionary socialist;
and he is fighting not to have a cow, to acquire a house, but to rebuild
“yours for a lifetime; he does not regret “ten years of factory work”, he has “no
anger to heaven,” because “the prices have been increased again.” Wide coverage plans
All this petty fighting is going on. at
If earlier a worker cursed the machine and smashed it, as the source of all
“<his failures and misfortunes, now he feels like a master over her and weak-
sings hymns to the car. ,
“We don’t hate you, factories,
Malice aboutwe don’t hide our cars
And not mines, dungeons and vaults
In our work we brand with a curse;
The scales and drives are submissive to us: '
A wave of the arm or a shoulder thrust—
And the cupola furnaces and forges went out,
Like a candle from a violent wind...

1) “Our songs.” Vol. 1. Moscow. 1913

No. 3 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. | 9

We're in. union in fire and metal;
By creating, we will merge into one,
Everywhere in life, in the great and the small,
We are destined to be inseparable."
Achalrey Wild 1).

This fusion “with fire and metal”, with the machine, is sung by A. Gastev (I. Do-

Zorov). He is rightly called the singer of iron, steel and machinery. Expand

any page of his book; "The poetry of the worker's blow" and you will see that the machine

becomes, as it were, forever a god, who, in close union with the prolegarian, transforms
zit our world. Here's his thing:

"WE GROW FROM IRON."

Look—I stand among them; machine tools, hammers, cupola furnaces and forges
hundreds of comrades.

At the top there is an iron forged expanse.

On the sides there are beams and angles.

They rise ten fathoms,

They bend right and left.‘

„'They are connected by rafters in cunoles and, like the shoulders of a giant, they hold
I'm lifting an iron building.

They are swift, they are sweeping, they are strong,

They require even more strength.

I look at them and straighten up.

New iron blood flows into the veins.

I've grown up more.

I myself am growing steel shoulders and immensely strong arms.

'_ I merged the buildings with iron.
Lifted up. *y {
I’m sticking my shoulders out into the rafters, the top beams, and I’m jumping.

My feet are still on the ground; but the head is higher than the building.
I’m still choking from these inhuman efforts, but I’m already shouting:
“I ask for words, comrades, words!”

`
A metallic echo covered my words, the whole building trembles with impatience, and I
I rose even higher, I was already on par with the pipes.
And not a story, not a speech, but only one thing, my iron, I will shout:

“We will win.”

How far away everything is from the motives of transitional poetry! A new world is opening up.
New thoughts, new hymns, new cries were born. They've only just broken out
but they are already growing and echoing loudly in the collective soul of the proletariat.
What an antiquity, long outlivedoh, long forgotten blows from the stuffy factory
the cells, the plant is ours, it is with us; and together with him we will defeat the old world and create
a new world of machines, beams, cranes, wheels and cupolas. We will compose hymns for them,
solemn, laudatory, like the ancients to their conquering heroes:

If earlier the city was depicted as an octopus, and the working muse saw it as a torch,
the desperation of a well-fed world and poverty, the bright dazzling shine of mirrored showcases,
first-class restaurants and advertisements and crooked shacks of a workers' settlement,
smartly dressed ladies and idle dandies of the bourgeoisie, a prostitute
and unemployed, then now the city is different. The worker loves him.

1) Sat. prol. writers. Ed. "Surf" St. Petersburg. * 194%.
10 PROLETAR CULTURE. No. 3

“I love you, huge city, great iron-stone giant.

I love you when, vast and hidden, you sleep restlessly,
excited by fiery dreams, tales of great achievements...

I love you when a rebellious hurricane sweeps past you and bloody
your streets are painted with the glow of uprising...

I love you, city, because you are a great bridge to liberation and tor-
human gesture.

At the call of your melodious sirens, the glare of dazzling lights from all hundred

ron, millions of people are rushing to you to give their body, blood and brain,

so that the hundredth in your great, transforming fire, I hear the knocks

countless consonant hammers, this is a gigantic forge where

a new joyful life, these are mighty symphonies of labor, iron and steel.

I see the blossoming of an unprecedented captivating dawn.”

| V. Kirillov!),

These lines, full of enthusiasm, unshakable and eternal, reflect
all the power and beauty of Red Petrograd was revealed. It is he from the ford of the octopus who pre-
flying under the red banner of the proletariat to the city of the “dawn of dawn”.
Such sentiments never existed before and could not exist, of course. They were born in
creative process of the revolution and the near future belongs to them. City
with all its industry - “a great bridge (to the liberation and creativity of man”,
the proletariat entered this bridge, it was already convincedhe walks along it, and in vain
the evil waves of counter-revolution are seething and trying to knock him down or overwhelm him.

The fathers who cursed their lives—the city and the factory—are completing their
action, destroying the shameful system, @black:

“Build violence, build ok*v,
Evil and blood of oppression,
Man-extermination,
Hateful system

A new generation, young men, is coming out to fight and strengthen a new life,
most of whom were born and raised in working-class apartments, among fa-
log smoke and poverty. But they

"Youngs are brave and powerful
Their movements, their step—
Multi-faceted full-sounding
Life stream.
Faces are fiery poppies,
Glances are kisses of the sun;
Their inheritance is a fiery path
p Clean
And spacious.
Aksen-Alkasov. 1).

As the final chord of the new moods and aspirations of the Russian pro-
letariat into an experience of great light and at the same time painfully terrible
moment, it is necessary to note the poem “Call” by Originalist.

“Worried like a boundless ocean,
I shout to you, in the hour of the fatal battle:
Answer my rebellious call
You, who have been burned by thunderstorms since childhood...
The whole world is burning in the arms of iron,
And the new world is in the uprising of labor.

?) “The future.” No. 2. May. 1918

*) “The future.” No. 1. January. 1918

?

3 ‚ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. that

Noeh of your strength, all your rebellious thoughts <

Close the fire wires...

Excited like a boundless ocean,

I shout to you, clutching my blade:

To the uprising! And to your foreign camp
I'm throwing wounds. my flaming wreath" 1),
th <
The field of struggle with the old world is expanding. Mad imperialist

the war, which crushed Russia with all its weight, gave rise to political
crisis. "Little brother." couldn't stand it; om overthrew the hated king, subjugated
‹the ruling classes; but he is aware that foreign help is needed in this fight.
new comrades.

If earlier the struggle of individual factories, cities, regions resulted in
the struggle of the working class throughout the entire state, now the borders
struggles throughout the course of history are further dissolved: the national struggle becomes
‘international, not in the idea, but in the revolutionary revoltania of today.
{comrade The originalist is the first to throw a flaming wreath of workers into a foreign camp.
sneeze wounds...

“Crowds of people follow crowds behind
Through horror under the shadow of cheerful banners,

To the beginning of new times,

And victories... #
The street is terrible, the street is red

Zlastnaya,

In the lush gold of sunset,

In a bright glow that colored the firmament.

All death

I rose to the alarm.”

11 this street is ready ‹

"On a great day of madness

Spin yarn for a joyful life
Or a victim of the construction jaws
Dying, create, renew!”

Insal in 1896 Emil AIAri.

Now these are not images and pictures of the future, real life, it blows
around us every day, every hour; "the great day of madness" will cover the entire
peace and will open up new spaces for the mighty flight of proletarian creativity,
limitless in its capabilities, in full - universal.

. And

Worker-poets realize that they do not have enough artistic skill

‘and the strength to depict in living and vivid images everything that excites their soul. Glu-

sideways, great thoughts swarm in their brains; and often many people want to fix them

in a poetic image.. But where and how to find the right musical rhythm? Uto-

overwhelmed by the factory noise, the ear is unable to eavesdrop and catch it in life,

in nature. Where to sculpt the necessary ‘paints’? The eye is tired, watching in the factory all day
behind the running wheels.

The poet's soul languishes and withers, like a bud that has not blossomed in the spring.

ditches. The old world has shackled her and does not allow her to blossom, But this does not bother the proletarian*

“whose poet. He knows his lot.

2) “The future.” No. 3. Gyun, 1918,
`

12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 3

“Not yet for us, who have not known the sun,”
Make noise at the top of your pride...
The Enchanted Road
We have just begun our journey."
Will the time come?
Original *).

t “The powerful poet will be nurtured
The cradle of work songs."

He will be the leader of the people, and his free song is like a “roar of joyful”

storms...

“...towards the bright distance,

Carrying a living fire in my soul,

To the roar of the whistle and steel

'Forward to world culture'
D. Odintsov *).

he will go with the working people. to

M. GOrky, having written “Mother,” long dreamed of creating the image of “Son.” This is for him
failed. And only now, on the threshold of the “bright share”, can the poet play
leader, who will command the world all the proud dreams of the ›black, intoxicated-
the frenzy of the “Son’s” victories in powerful images and victorious alarm chords.

Valeryan Polyansky.

‘

Our criticism.
Article two: criticism of proletarian art.

Every 7creativity is the creativity of nature or man, spontaneous or pla-
numbered, leads to organized, slender, viable forms
only through regulation. These are two inextricably linked mutually necessary
all aspects of any organizational process. "So, in the elements-
In the development of life, creativity is variability”; she creates new ones
and new combinations of elements - new and new deviations from previous forms;
they are regulated by “natural selection”: their number eliminates everything
non-adapted to the environment. preserves and secures the acquired ones. In pro-
Therefore, the creative moment represents a labor effort, and a changing connection
things; regulator - systematic control of knowledge, which constantly monitors
behind the results of the effort, stops it when its goal is not visible
achieved, changes its direction when it deviates from this goal, etc. d.

In the artist’s work there are the same relationships: new and new projects are created.
combinations of living images are also regulated with the body, systematic
selection, the mechanism of “self-criticism” sweeping away everything motley, inappropriate
corresponding to the task, securing everything that goes in its direction. When and
since self-criticism is insufficient, the result is contradictions
unholiness, a jumble of images, artistry.

The development of art on a social scale is spontaneously regulated
the entire social environment, which accepts or rejects those entering into
her works, supports or suppresses new trends in art. But
There is also systematic regulation; it is carried out by criticism. Its action
The fundamental basis, of course, is also the socialnal environment: the work of criticism
is conducted from the point of view of some collective, in a class society—
from the point of view of a particular class.

1) “Sat. prol. writers." Ed. "Sail". ITG.
2?) Ibid.
№3 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 43

Now we will consider in what ways, in what directions criticism
The proletarian can and should regulate the development of proletarian art.

E\

The first task of our criticism in relation to proletarian art is
this is to establish its boundaries, clearly define its boundaries so that it does not blur
existed in the surrounding cultural environment, did not mix with the art of the old
peace. The task is as simple as it may seem from the first step: here to
Since then, errors and confusions have been constantly observed,

Firstly, proletarian art is usually not distinguished from peasant art.
Without a doubt, the working class, especially our Russian, came out of the peasantry,
and there are many points of contact: the peasants, for the most part, are also labor and
also an exploited element of society; It’s not for nothing that things could get pretty good for us,
a long-term political union of both. But in cooperation and ideology,
There are deep, fundamental differences in the basic ways of acting and thinking.
cipial. The soul of the proletariat, its organizational principle, is collectivism,
friendly cooperation; insofar as he becomes himself, as a social
class, as this principle develops in his life, penetrates and pro-
asks her. Peasants, small owners, in their mass gravitate towards individualism,
to the spirit of self-interest and private property; this is the “petty bourgeoisie”, in
the title is formulaic and inaccurate, because “bourgeois” actually means urban
Nina, but correctly expressing the basic nature of the life aspirations of the peasants -
stva. In addition, the patriarchal structure of the family economy supports
the peasants have a spirit of authoritarianism and religiosity; The same contributes to this in general
the inevitable narrowness of outlook characteristic of the village, and dependence on the
agriculture from elemental forces mysterious to the peasant,sending uro-
harvest or crop failure.

Look at peasant poetry—I’m not even talking about pre-revolutionary poetry.
‘new, but to the most modern, left-SR, at least “Red Bell”, collection
nickname of talented poets Klyuev, Yesenin and others. TU everywhere fetishism “we-
persons", basics of farming; here is the whole Olimi of the peasant gods - and the Trinity,
and the Mother of God, and Yegor the Brave, and St. Nicholas the Merciful; and then - constant
gravitation towards the past, the exaltation of such leaders of the unorganized, spontaneous
noi strength of the people, like Stenka Razin... All this could not be more alien to consciousness
socialist proletariat.

Meanwhile, such works are not published in workers’ newspapers and collections,
as proletarians, and are analyzed: by criticism under the same designation. True,
many worker poets began with peasant poetry, perhaps because they came out
recently from the village and retained contact with it, or simply by virtue of imitation.
Interesting in this sense are the first collections of worker poets published in Moscow.
five years ago and destroyed by censorship - “Our Songs”, released by Ti IP.
“There is a considerable share of poems there that are, in essence, purely peasant; even more—
transitional mud. It is worth comparing two or three poems by one author in
their changing shades. Here is V. Torsky, a completely beginning poet.

VILLAGE.

Here I am standing on a hill in my native land,

And my native village lay beneath me.

Dear men's huts stood in a row
They look at the road from the green bushes.

And against the background of heaven the church cross is burning,
And the birch forest near the church is noisy.
Wildflowers are all around,
A meadow belted with a blue ribbon of a river...
A round dance of clouds covered the sky,

And the sunset dressed them in iridescent attire.
74 -PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 3

Of course, this is both imitative and weak; but, most importantly, there is no one here
a touch that could at least be a hint of the proletarian poet; meanwhile
the author is from this environment, and not a business-minded peasant, as one might think from the
wanting. |

His—
MORNING. at

It's dawning. Gilded '
=” Covers the east.

Whispers something to the sleepy groves

A breeze has arrived.

And inin his green cloak,

I feel the morning tremors,

Along with the clear sky

The youth are alive.

Only an old pine forest.

He sighed in disbelief,

And again to the crimson river

He bent his gloomy curls.

It’s also not independent. But this is already a hint of a new perception of the world:
For the author, the forest is a collective, with different currents in it, reacting differently
on natural events, and not a 'separate heroic personality, like Koltsov.

* AUTUMN.

The tops of the pine trees are already rustling:
"Autumn is pouring."
And the birches became sad,
Let the branches go low
And with hidden anxiety, I
Shaving the branches sleepily, }
As in the old days they do not argue,
They don’t argue, they just echo.
Without hope, without reproach:
"So soon." and
Before them, like visions, `
Quietly going out in the distance
Experienced moments
Bright colorful spring:
Sun benches, wind. fairy tales,
Fragrant attire
From flowers and fragrant herbs,
Choirs of vocal birds,
Intoxicating dreams.
And tears fall from the branches
White birch trees
({ hidden in the heart of a dream,
“Without kissing each other,
Without kissing, without admiring
Gilded foliage, p
A dying dream
Flying away to gold
A glimpse of the past. a

Mood—eras of reaction; but nature is perceived through the eyes of the collective
Vista; its symbols are general experiences of the forest, not individual experiences...
of some birch or pine tree, as in ordinary lyrics. Truthful
symbols speak of the weakening of the ties of the collective in its overwhelming turnover -
No. 3 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 15

new, about that; like its living links, surrendering to dreams-memories, leaving
into themselves, move away from each other: things that do not occupy the poet’s individual
dualist` are not in his field of vision. Of course, collectivism is also in the way of re-
accept and understand nature, such as here in Torekago, there is only one
part, one side of complete, real active-labor collectivism.

Another source of confusion is soldier influences, which over time
The proletariat was subjected to war and revolution. The main composition of the soldiers is—
the same peasants, but separated from production, living. masses in conditions

‚ consumer communityzma and those trained in the work of destruction or have already carried it out
nurturing. The struggle for peace, hostility towards the rich, much less conscious and less
selfless than the workers, temporarily tied the soldiers into a political bloc
with the proletarians and caused close communication between both, although, as public
types, they have little relation to each other. Military camaraderie led to
that the soldier's current flowed into the workers' newspapers, and even colored consciousness less.
stable proletarian poets. Hence - often in militant-revolutionary
motives were penetrated by a specific soldierly coloring, and thus the bliss
urban tone, obligatory for the highest class in its ideals; and deposit
into poetry, understandable in life, but unacceptable in art, of a narrow spirit, personally
directed hatred towards individual representatives of the bourgeoisie, feelings,
perverting the idea of the struggle of the great class; and direct excesses, like gloating
Much mockery of defeated enemies, praise of lynchings, violence

_before the sadistic delights on the topic of squeezing the guts out of the bourgeoisie, there was,
Unfortunately, even this, Of course, such things have nothing to do with the ideology
working class logic. You are characterized by fighting, but not rude soldierly motives,
unyielding hostility to capital as a social force, but not petty malice
against its individual representatives - necessary products. its’ general
natural environment. The proletariat must, of course, take up arms when necessary.
the interests of his freedom, his development, his ideal demand; but it’s not for nothing that he fights
against the social spontaneity that gives rise to any armed
struggle. The brutality that this struggle causes in the human soul, maybe
of course, temporarily take over the psyche of the fighters, but it is alien and hostile to the proletarian
Russian culture, which allows only forced severity. Spirit of truths
Noble strength is nobility, and the work collective is true strength. He must
eken to become a new aristocracy of culture, the last in the history of mankind,
the first fully worthy of this name.

Another border line forproletarian art our criticism
must be carried out by intelligent socialism. There's confusion here
happens very naturally and especially easily, thanks to the proximity of ideals.
But the differences are still deep and important.

The working intelligentsia emerged from bourgeois culture, above it and for
I worked on it, I was raised on it. Its principles are individualism. And the most ha-
The character of intellectual labor. supports this trend: in the work of a scientist,
artist, writer, collaboration is not directly felt, the role of the collective
the image remains out of sight, the appearance of isolation prevails, illustrative
existence of completely independent personal activity, when the obvious is obvious
cooperation, then the intellectual usually occupies an authoritarian position
the role of a manager, organizer of work: an engineer in a factory, a doctor in a hospital
nitse, it, etc. Hence the element of authoritarianism, which is generally inevitably associated
stored in the bourgeois world and its VT, as an organizational addition
to their basic anarchy,

Thanks to all this, for the most part even when the labor intelligence
Ligent rises to sincere and deep sympathy for the working class,
to belief in the socialist ideal, the past retains its power in its way
to think, in his perception of life, in understanding the forces and ways of it. development.

Irimer is a drama. Verharna. “Dawn”, which is not only always called
first when asked about the repertoire of the proletarian theater, but they consider it possible
put in it without any interpretation or commentary, as if it were completely normal,”
th

16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. M3

This is a mistake. The play is beautiful and is a precious inheritance for us,
but still - an inheritance from. old world. In it the spirit of socialism is dressed in authoritative
container-individualistic. a shell that needs to be ‘understood,’ but ‘you can’t just
accept. Everything is built on a heroic personality. people's tribune; presenter
the masses behind them; she is the soul of struggle and victory, without her the masses are dark and blind,
are able to find their way; its tragedy for the author himself is the main
everyone's interestsy. This is how the old world understands the meaning, personality; collectivism
builds life differently, illuminates it differently. He admits, of course. heroes and more
that—he: creates them, but as the embodiment of this power, as exponents of his general
will, as interpreters of his ideal.

And since the attitude towards the leaders is different, the collective, therefore,
has not matured to a clear consciousness of himself.

The great Belgian sculptor C. Meunier in his statues, and I imagine
who shared the life and everyday life of workers, gave a real cult of labor; but with all the deep
love. the artist to the depicted, with all his sympathetic understanding—
this is not yet a cult of the collective. The merit remains enormous; however, the artist
The proletarian nickname must know: this is not a ready-made guide for him, it is his task
lies daligo, x

The artistic self-consciousness of the working class must be pure and clear,
free from alien impurities: this is the first concern of our criticism.

And

Our criticism of proletarian art must be directed at its content.
first of all,

The emerging art of a young class, and, moreover, living in difficult
In such conditions, a certain rigidity of content is inevitably characteristic, emanating from
arising from a lack of experience, from the forced limitation of the field of observation,
Thus, fiction first here involuntarily takes on all its themes and material
from the life of the workers themselves, and even the revolutionary intellectuals associated
with them; only little by little, still very little, she is expanding
your area. Meanwhile, there is no doubt that proletarian art must
enough to include in the field of your experience the whole of society and nature, the whole life of the universe.

What can our criticism do in this regard? Of course she's not in
able to directly give young art what it lacks, but she
can and should consistently set before him the task of expanding his area,
can and should celebrate every success in this sense and indicate new connections
bathrooms with it are possible. And indirect, but very effective help
She will achieve such successes through ‘comparison, everywhere. where to introduce yourselfcase, works of proletarian art with homogeneous “artistic
new idea”, i.e. according to the organizational problem being solved, the works of the old
art. There is the material, the field of view, and often the very principle of the solution
the tasks will be different.

This especially applies to the favorite questions of classical literature -
about the structure of the family, about the struggle between “lower” and “higher” motives in the human soul,
about the dominant passion that captivates a person, about character education,
it. under.

Often the same or homogeneous tasks have already been posed and distributed in one way or another.
solved by science and philosophy. Criticism must point out and compare these
solutions © artistic: the great collectivism of all-human experience,
hidden under the shell of the world of science, in many cases it will appear precious
a leader for young, seeking and hesitant creativity.

The narrowness of artistic content may consist not only in
limited capture of organized experience, but also in a narrowed, one-sided perception

tion, in the limited basic relationship to the material of experience. "Gut especially
typically an excessive concentration on the point of view of social struggle, reduced
the transition of art to an organizing role. It couldn’t be more natural for
No. 3 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 17

a young and struggling class, moreover, in the most difficult situation; it doesn't even:
bypassed ‘in the first steps. development of the class, when it is still just self-determining
lies. through his consciousness. opposites to another class of society
and develops the militant side of his ideology. But then, just as inevitably,
this point of view becomes insufficient, # . : }

The working class moves towards its ideal through struggle, but this was achieved more than once.
destruction, but a new organization of life. And, moreover, unprecedentedly new, immeasurably
complex and incredibly slender. Therefore, the culture of martial consciousness
in itself does not provide the main means of solving the problem; production required
social and construction ideology. The proletarian movement is already moving in this direction.
science, in the same direction toproletarian art must develop, so
‹ with more energy and speed, the more the working class approaches
to realize your ideal. ° )

In our modern proletarian poetry, propaganda sharply predominates.
new content. Among thousands of poems calling for class struggle
and glorifying her victories among hundreds of stories denouncing capital
and his minions, everything else drowns. This needs to change. The part shouldn't
to be whole. A comprehensive deepening into life, however, is much more difficult than an attack
to break through the enemy line; but in the cause of socialism it is even more necessary,
because only a comprehensive understanding of life, its specific forces and its paths
will provide support for comprehensive practical creativity in it.

The civil propaganda narrowing of poetry reflects unfavorably
on its very artistry, which, in essence, is what organizes everything
‹ila. The state flight of the template is developing - how to maintain originality in
thousands of repetitions?—and the sympathetic perception that merges
ground with port,

Then, and when the content is already unfolding further, it is often still
is still understood from the same angle of view, narrower than it is. Yes, recently
In the published book by A. Gastev, the main theme of the works is machine
production, its gigantic organizing force, the connection in which it’
unites the work collective, and that power, power over the elements, which
it gives him. This is one of the main ideas of the cultural and creative proletarian
consciousness; and Gastev called his book “The Poetry of the Worker’s Strike,” as if he
the task does not go beyond the 60660th consciousness of the proletariat.” Because it's obvious
that the words “work blow” are for everyone, especially. in the midst of a turbulent revolution,
will evoke the idea of a social battle, and not at all of a blow, for example, from a hammer,
which, moreover, is generally an insufficient symbol for machine technology.

The propaganda narrowing of artistic ideas also affects
that the capitalists and the bourgeois intellectuals associated with them are depicted
I sweart in such tones as if these people were personally evil, cruel, dishonest, etc.
“Such an understanding is naive and contradicts the collectivist method of mice
leniya. It’s not at all a matter of the personal qualities of this or that bourgeois, and it’s not against
individuals must be guided by revolutionary feeling, revolutionary
effort. It's a matter of class positions, and the struggle is against the social system,
against the collectives associated with it and defending it. Capitalist 'personally
maybe even a nobler person; but; because he is a representative
of his class, its actions and thoughts will necessarily be determined by its social
position. For the conscious proletarian, even at the moment of combat conflict,
However, he is an enemy not as a person, but as an enemy. blind. a link in the chain that has been forged
history. To defeat the old world, it is more useful to understand it at its best.
puters and in its highest manifestations, than to imagine what is there. how evil people
and bad motives. The collective thought and will of the working class must not be
fuss over little things. 1

Closely related to the same propaganda narrowing of creativity is
child one recently emerged theory, which is the proletarian 'art
must certainly be “cheerful” and enthusiastic. Unfortunately,
it has an undoubted success, especially among the youngest and most inexperienced

"Prokhetarian culture". No. 3. 2
18 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 3

proletarian poets, although it cannot be called anything other than childish. Gamma collection
tive class feeling cannot and should not be so limited. Without a doubt
niya, the work collective is characterized by a lively and vibrant feeling of its strength,
but we must not forget that strength sometimes suffers defeat. Art must"
to be, first of all, completely sincere and truthful, precisely as an organizer.”
life: who and what can be organized by those who are not trusted?

In May of this year you read the following poems in the work newspaper:

“I walk in radiance. sun and spring...

The space burns with scarlet flowers.

Unusual dreams came true

And souls are lifted to the heights,

Like mighty mountain peaks.

What days?what space

In the fields, in the snaking streams,

In the crystal dawns, in the thoughts of the evenings.

On noisy, noisy trains,

In the smiles of faces, in the garlands of words—

Like beads in scarlet flower petals,

Joy sparkles in our days,

To the bottom, to the depths of your depths

I am filled with scarlet joy and sunshine.”...
it. d.

These are the days when in our life “unrealistic dreams truly came true.”
dreams,” and, moreover, very “evil” dreams - of the German imperialists, which flew by
Riat had no power to interfere. These are the days of our difficult trials and misfortune
revolution, days of ferocious outrage against our brothers in Ukraine,
Caucasus Finland Baltics, days of painful fatigue from huge,
overwhelming tasks in our region, days of devastation and famine—days of complete destruction
the colors of the whole damned legacy of war. Yes, despair is unworthy of fighters; but
the falseness of rose-colored glasses is even more unworthy of them: it is a separation, an escape from reality:
in reality, a deceitful mask of the same despair...

This reduces proletarian poetry to the level of that which put its
their motto:

“The darkness of low truths is dearer to us
Paz exalting deception."

No, not sweet praises, but unshakable will and stoic pride -
that's what you need when surrounded by enemies on all sides

$1 pasbaz Sha ig from, iprau ii men gilaye —-

“Let the world collapse, he will fearlessly face the blows of the rubble.” Ancient
poet-individualist, knew what true courage is, Moreover, he should know
this. poet of the new. team.

In all its regulative work, our criticism of proletarian creativity
quality must always keep one thing in mind: there is a spirit of labor collectivism"
above all - objectivity,

IG. ‹

Criticism of proletarian art from the point of view of its form should primarily
to set one, very specific and clear task: full compliance with this
forms with content.

Artistic technique proletariat. must, of course, first of all
learn from your predecessors. In this case, naturally, there is a temptation—
take as a model the latest that has been developed by old art. It's easy here
fall into mistakes.

3 ‘PROLETARIANCULTURE. 19

In art, form is inextricably linked with content, and precisely because
“Last” is not always the most perfect. When social class
fulfilled its progressive’ role in the historical process, and is inclined
to decline, then the content of his art inevitably becomes decadent,
and the content follows; adapting to’it, and form. Degeneration of the
subclass is usually accomplished on the basis of the transition to parasitic
tism. Next comes satiety, a dulling of the sense of life. From it
the main source of new, developing content—social
creative activity; life becomes empty, the “reasonable” one loses, i.e. precisely co-
cial meaning. They try to fill the emptiness by searching for new and new pleasures.
expectations, new and new sensations. Artificially organizes these quests: on the one hand,
hand, along the path of exciting fading sensuality goes into decadent
perversions; on the other hand, along the path of refinement and sophistication of aesthetic
perceptions, begins to complicate things to the extreme and with a mass of petty tricks
strives to decorate its forms. All this has been observed more than once in history, for example.
the decline of different cultures - eastern, ancient, feudal; va was also observed.
recent decades, due to the decomposition of bourgeois culture: the majority:
trends of decadent “modernism” and “futurism”. Russian bourgeois
different art trailed behind the European, like our bourgeoisie itself, thin-
dull and flabby, able to fade without true blossoming,

In general, one should not learn artistic technique from these
organizers of life's decay, but among the great artists,
born of the rise and flourishing of the now obsolete classes—the revolutionary ones.
romantics and classics of various times. And you can learn from the “last”
only the little things, in which they are, however, often great masters, but even then ©
caution, with caution, so that when coming into contact with them, you do not get contaminated
breaths of rotting,

It's sad to see a proletarian poet who is looking for the best artistic
forms,and thinks to find them from some grimacing intellectual
klamist Mayakovsky or, even worse, from Igor Severyanin, an ideologist of al-
fons and cocottes, talented embodiment of varnished vulgarity. We have
there were great masters who deserve to be the first teachers of art forms
ties for the great class. 1 y |

Simplicity, clarity, purity of form of these great masters - Pushkin, Mer
Montov, Gogol, Nekrasov, Toletoy - they are more suitable for the tasks,
emerging art. Of course, new content will inevitably emerge
and new forms; but we must start from the best that was. From the newest ones it is necessary
and to teach those who are close in spirit and artistically stable, and not distant and unfaithful...
chivykh, which. come to the proletariat, then they leave, like the Andreevs, Bal-
mounts, blocks, etc.

Our workers' poetry at the first shats revealed a predilection for the ancestral
Vilno-rhythmic verse with simple rhymes. Now she's showing everything
more inclination towards free rhythms and complexly intertwined, new,
often unexpected rhymes. Here the influence of the latest intellectual
Ghent poetry; it can hardly be welcomed. New forms are more difficult;
fighting them is an unnecessary expenditure of effort, distracting from the main thing, from developing and
development of artistic content.

Let there even be some uniformity in correctness. He has a basic
in life itself. A factory worker lives in a realm of strict rhythms and pro-
wait, elementary rhyme. Among the “steel chaos” of machine tools and moving machines
waves of different, but generally mechanically precise rhythms intertwine; at
In this case, the continuity of smaller and more frequent ones is intersected by more rare and severe ones.
ly, like a caesura or a rhyme in a verse. I endlessly repeat these sounds with my own
with the blows they forge, according to their measure, verbal images in which they work
Nick with an artistic nature strives to express his experiences. |

Subsequently, when the rhythms of the living world become more accessible to the worker,
childbirth, where there is less mechanical repeatability and correctness, it is monotonous

5%
—

20 PROLETAR

KAYACULTURE. No. 3

This will melt away on its own. But to overcome it by imitating the poets of other
every environment and situation is a depriving task, increasing difficulties where
there are already a lot of them. It is no coincidence that the best worker poet so far, Samobyt-
Nick, didn't go this route.

The most difficult form for young poetry is the prose poem. Otka-
calling from rhyme and from the obvious rhythm of sounds, it requires, however, all the more strict
rhythm of images, and at the same time sufficient harmony of sound combinations.
ty, requirements. are far from being fully consistent in the work of A. Gastev “Poetry”
Zia of the workers' blow", where poems in the Provost predominate. Here skyo-
hall: the inexperience of young ‘creativity, carried away by too difficult
while 'there are still ways for him, perhaps, simply due to ignorance of their actual
difficulties. Our criticism can provide great savings in artistic
efforts, clarifying the hidden difficulties of various forms, a question that has little interest
“The old theory of art is settled.

How much knowledge of it is generally necessary for new workers in art?
theory, a living example of this is the publishing misunderstanding with the work of Bes-
salko "Catastrophe". The book is called a “novel”, when in fact it is a pain-
what a story. The difference between these forms, quite vague in ordinary theories of words,
Our criticism can find out relatively easily and accurately. Staging
and the solution to the organizational ‘task’ in the story is episodic in nature;
in this case, the author wanted to show how heterogeneous
‚composition of a revolutionary collective in an environment of extreme oppression and impossibility
opportunity to act. If the author posed and solved the problem in a systematic way
form—would clarify the origin and development of various elements of the revolutionary
of the collective, the conditions that temporarily bound them together, the objective necessity
the need for decomposition and decay, and, moreover, precisely in these and not other directions
influences, then it would be a novel. The point, of course, is not the volume: a small novel
may be less than the big story.

Our criticism is on its ownalive. will actually create a new theory step by step
art, in which it will find a place and all the wealth of experience of old criticism,
revised and re-systematized based on a higher point of view
all-organizational.

It should be noted that in other cases criticism of form is completely inseparable

from criticism of the content, actually turns into it. This especially applies

to the question of artistic symbols. Such a symbol is a living image that
serves as a special kind of sign for a number of other images associated with it,
a means to simultaneously and in an organized manner introduce them into creation. Yes, Father's Shadow
Hamlet is a symbol of the dull echoes of a criminal case that gradually spread
working in a social environment and revealing its secret. Great City in
Verhaeren's "Dawns" is a symbol of the entire organization of capitalist society,
it. under. But, as a living image, and not a bare sign, such a symbol also has its own
“body content, which is perceived first of all: Shadow
This is a ghost, the Great City is some kind of capital, This content itself is
lives for everyone. laws of art and corresponding criticism. If, for example.,
“The shadow of Hamlet’s father did not behave as it is supposed to behave in popular fantasy
yourself to ghosts, then the result would be gross inartisticness. "Blue Bird"
Maeterlinck, for all the depth of his idea, would not have been a great work.
I eat, if its symbols themselves did not constitute a beautiful, harmonious fairy tale,
but the children like it so much.

Our criticism, of course, should concern symbols from this side as well.
starting © the very choice of characters.

Ours is cruel, rude. time - the era of world 'militarism in action -
Artists often show cruel and crude symbols. For example, let's say
worker-fiction writer, in order to especially sharply and strictly express the idea of ​​refusal
everything personal in the name of a great collective cause, symbolizes it, in a murderous
“You are the hero of the woman he loves and sympathizes with. Criticism must say
But such a symbol is unacceptable: it contradicts the very idea of collectivism, women
No. 3 PROLETARY CULTURE. 21

for the collective is not just a source of personal happiness, but a real
a new or possible member of the same collective, or, for example, an enthusiastic poet,
wishing to express readiness to fight the old world to the end, without stopping
swearing ‘to no one; the most terrible and grave victims, threatens:

“In the name of our Tomorrow, we will burn Raphael,
Let’s destroy museums and trample flowers of art.”

Our reviewer correctly, but too softly on this occasion, noted that
that" "ispsychology, not ideology"; i.e., that the poet, surrendering to the flow of his feelings
art, forgot about the social organizing role of art. This is a symbol in the spirit of the sun
date, not a worker, a soldier can and should bombard Reims Cathedral,
if there is or is supposed to be an enemy observation post there;
but what makes the poet choose this Hindenburg image? The poet could only
to regret such a cruel necessity, but not to glorify it. When is the most creative?
quality goes with the flow so much, it does not elevate it. Proletarian no-
where we must not forget about the cooperation of generations, which is the opposite
cooperation between classes in the present, he has no right to forget about respect
to the great dead who paved the way for us and bequeathed their souls to us,
who from the grave extend a helping hand to us in our quest for the ideal
alu.

In matters of the form of art, as well as in matters of its content, our criticism
must constantly remind the artist of his responsible role as an or-
organizer of the living forces of the great collective. r.

< 1U,

‘

Criticism is a regulator of the life of art not only from the EGB
creativity, but also from the side of perception: she is an interpreter of art for
broad masses, it shows people what and how they can take from art for
arrangement of your life, internal and external,

In relation to the art of the old world, our criticism is even forced
and limit ourselves to this task: to regulate. its development she cannot. But
in relation to the new, our art, both tasks are the samefor ever urgent
and huge.

The point here is not only to reveal the symbols when they can
be not understood, to explain what is hidden in the images, which, perhaps, the artist himself
the debtor would not be able to formulate for himself precisely, to draw all the conclusions, to
which maybe he didn’t have time to reach. Criticism should’ also point out
and those new questions that arise based on the results achieved
work, and the new possibilities that come from it. But’ the most
important—criticism must introduce a new work into the class system for the masses
owl culture, into the general connection of the proletarian worldview, in living images,
specific and therefore private, to find and show the world meaning revealed
from an all-organizational point of view.

Here lies the path on which our criticism itself turns into creativity.
quality in
A. Bogdanov. ›

Circle work.

The working class, in its desire to create its own culture,
it is necessary to develop special forms of organization. For’ intensive work, for
its success is one of the indispensable conditions. is a close-knit friendly
team work. That is why the cell of creative work of the proletariat must
to appear a circle, or a close community of people with one aspiration and one
target ahead. : x
b

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 3

What most characterizes the production of even modern higher education. image-
tania? More and more development of laboratory and seminar classes, -
the auditoriums are starting to empty. This is what we mean now when we say
about the circle, or rather the seminary: And the past of our illegal life gives
many examples. Remember the propaganda circles where the lecturer himself studied
along with your attentive audience. And this is the most important thing; since this is co-
the audience's breastfeeding with his senior fellow leader and destroys
“the usual authoritarian relationship between lecturer and listeners, especially emphasized
lecturing from the dais of the pulpit.

Finally, only through independent work will workers delve deeper into the secret
nicknames of knowledge, only in this waytheir joint efforts it is possible to master the method-
home of this or that science. A similar mastery of the method is our goal.

That is why we think of the circle as the primary cell of cultural creativity.
“Your working class. At some moments in the life of such a circle, we
We suppose we will stop in the following lines. Circles ‘arise on the soil
voluntary consent of comrades who want to study something together or
explore. This immediately outlines a comradely collectivistic ha-
character, new public education, no element of personal gain
in the aspirations of the participants in such a circle.

Not for the sake of obtaining a matriculation certificate, to escape from one’s environment,
they took it. If this were so, our entire construction would be an empty phrase. No,
proletarians gather in their circles after a hard day’s work to
“to embark on an even more difficult task - to master the collective experience of humanity,
called science, To master means to win, to conquer, which requires strong
a lot of tension and initiative, this is what should permeate the circle or,
as our organizations (our Freemasons of the 18th century) once called their organizations “friendly
©society." Only with such a camaraderie, only with cohesion and general
aspirations, the circle will be an organizational unit of a new life for his
‘participants. Without this, the circle will turn into a bad copy of a stuffy classroom
rooms with only adults on desks instead of children.

These general considerations must always be borne in mind and remembered. Only when
In such a free academic republic we will get the greatest results
our efforts.

“Now let’s move closer to organizing work in such circles and try
outline several types of them, in various branches of knowledge, It’s better to start
all from the material most accessible to beginners. From experience we
we know that the easiest path leads through the study of literary works
ny. Why? First of all, because there is no difficulty in mastering the form itself.
my given material; almost every one of us, reading one or another workeating
artistic. literature, creates the very idea of ​​its heroes. Here
This is where we will begin our creative work. Since each of us ‘already has
given our idea, we can express it without much difficulty and then
let's try together, through friendly organic criticism, to understand our
views in the dispute that has arisen. Here we have the first step: the transition from a completely living
a specific image to his distraction.

This will be the first step towards primary scientific creativity. Same
Thus, we will gradually move on to more and more complex content.
We read some work, after ours, the first equals
skillful, but most importantly direct disputes move on to getting to know each other
critics, and here a vast field for active play opens up
mind. We remember how in one work circle we had to start reading
Belinsky's theoretical works on poetry - so what? After the very first lines we
locked in a long argument, throwing the book aside.

There are two sides to such a dispute, and much will depend on the leadership.
tel circle or seminary. A dispute can be waged for its own sake, degenerate
into the fruitless mental gymnastics that medieval universities turned to
Chinese disputes. But the dispute can be conducted in another way; its goal will then be to disbelieve
the destruction of the enemy, and the joint clarification of ambiguities, dark places and topics
№3 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: 23

“discovering the correct point of view. Only in such a formulation of the matter, when

age will have personal goals (which is what intellectual circles usually suffer from), the circle
will remain a truly friendly partnership, In further development we see
Already starting independent work, writing abstracts. All abstracts must
“be supported by theses, that is, the provisions to which the speaker has arrived
as a result of his work, a kind of discovery. Subsequent discussion
presentation of the report. will bring double benefits. The field of knowledge is so vast that
It is impossible for a person to master all the material on his own, and in the circle we
let's startthe basis of a systematic division of labor in the field of science, the most common
“judgment will give the skill to be critical; relate to what you hear and express clearly
“your thoughts.

In the old medieval schools there was a wonderful custom of forcing everyone
students take part in debates, being official opponents
‘tami; the same voluntary coercion should be the principle of circle-
howl of work. After all, its participants deliberately came together, which is why they should
take part in the common work as much as possible,

Here is a diagram of circle classes in the field of literature. Approximately
the same work can be carried out in other areas of knowledge. Let's address this right away
eke attention to the fact that the subject of our studies is not the notorious literature
culture for the people, but genuine works of art.

We must also work in other areas of knowledge. The thought of starting to work
Fotu from getting acquainted with the results of the achievements of science without the media of “literature”
“tours for the people" may seem naive. But we remember the late Lebe-
Virgo, who is everyone. invited his listeners—even freshmen—to his
famous. colloquium, where new works were discussed and the Tekuzzaya River was examined
literature. It doesn’t matter that the newcomer doesn’t understand anything, he said,
However, it cannot be otherwise, since school physics is a parody of science
and has nothing to do with her, but if he nevertheless visits our
“conversation, then as a result he will master science and will be ours. Why the same method
not apply in our works? Essentially, it is much more economical than spending
waste time and waste your mind with Rubakinovism or Bitnerism. Going first
path, we will master, albeit with great initial effort, the method
science. And having mastered the method, we will learn the material in this area much easier
knowledge, A. when studying through Bitnerism, everything will seem too easy,
and our mind will become pampered and will not be capable of hard, dirty work.

True, all this is new. Methods have not yet been found, and here is the field for search
"laying paths. Let's take the historical processWith; let's say a revolution
1789, How can we work along our path? How to work with those who do not yet have
initial information in the area of basic facts? This is where we always remember
the above phrase from Lebedev and another example from university life.
The late V. O. Klyuchevsky did not always answer the question of how to work,
variable: come yourself; and finishing the lecture, he said; Read up for the next one
this and that. And in the most backward circle you can start with an introduction, give a general
picture of the revolution, indicating at the same time: read this and that, and on the next
once again go to the joint reading of “Contradictions of Class Interests” by Kaut-
“whom with a general discussion of what they read. More than once we had to
conduct such a general reading with comments from the communist manifesto, book
essentially not easy. True, there was always someone lagging behind, but whoever remained was
truly ours. It’s time for us to learn that scientific work is not a sweet dish,
easily digestible. We must immediately show that this is difficult, hard work,
requiring enormous effort, but also resulting in great
‘war in our lives, This connection of the most seemingly theoretical research
tions and their impact on our lives must be constantly emphasized,

We approach everything from the point of view of work, why it is necessary to show that
Even now (we even emphasize this) writing poetry is difficult, grueling.
good work. The view of the ease of poetic creativity is usually widespread.
There is a lot of studio work in this area. would give to our proletarian poets,
who would not give away their timid attempts at writing, their attempts at work.
24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 3

for poetry. This happens because we look at poetic creativity
from a bourgeois point of view: we are talking about individual creativity, self-
everyday life, poetic inspiration. But even today's Russian poets
have abandoned this prejudice, They are truly working together by the sweat of their brow on how to
every word of their verse and teach it to their youth as a science, accessible"
for many, the science of verse. And we already have the results of such learning: take
Bryusov, and you will immediately understand that there is no inspired creativity in his
There can be no talk of poetry, but only the most intense labor and labor. In the middle-
centuries-old schools also taught all students to write Latin poetry.

What about the music? When we listen to the airy sounds of Liszt's Campanella performed
According to Hoffmann or Godoveky, we do not see the enormous preliminary work
sheer technical work, only as a result of which this enchanting
pure lightness.

And so decisively in everything. The task of the student is to master it by sliding ver-
hushkami, no, he must work through one or two questions and learn the method
(whether it's analyzing infinitesimals, welding metal, or creating a sonnet). Not
let’s hide that this understanding of the seminary circle is somewhat different from the usual
and requires special attention and effort from his chosen ones. This is the approach.
all the more difficult because there is nothing yet on this path, or rather, almost nothing else
not created. We need to work together. And here the circle or seminar work
bot has one huge advantage. When exchanging opinions, when you become
If you are trying to express your opinion, it often happens that much is not clear to you.
becomes clearer and revealed to you as it unfolds
your speech, and suddenly you notice to your amazement that somehow imperceptibly
you have made a small discovery, Here collective creativity has behind it
great future. And it is not for nothing that such great scientists as the recently deceased
English chemist Ramsay, Viennese doctor Barany, both Nobel laureates, de-
They made into common property every idea they came to in the process of work.
Much had to be discarded later (Ramsey’s theory about the transition of radium to other
elements); but once a piece of paper has been put into circulation, it becomes common property
and leads many to new discoveries.

It doesn’t even matter who put this or that idea into circulation, it is important that
she was socialized and became common property. 'Here is the main differencee
collectivistic point of view from the individualistic one, when a scientist
trembles, as if his thought had been stolen from him, and keeps it under a bushel,

Work, work and work—this should be the motto of the seminary circle. Tech-
circle work, of course, should be facilitated through a number of practices
ical instructions, which we will now briefly outline. The circle should not be
very large, otherwise the intensity of work disappears, 20 people,
no more. With such a number, an anti-mine commonwealth is possible, which would help so much.
contributes to the overall work, but for the work to be successful, one more condition is necessary:
approximately equal preparation of participants or obligation to otto-
to catch up with comrades. One of the requirements we set is mandatory
everyone's activity. members of the circle. Every circle, striving for organization
scientific material, naturally he must spend his life in an organized
within this framework, it must have a charter and a number of bodies (bureau, audit,
editorial board, etc.),

The most creative. the work of the circle-seminary should also proceed formally
slowly. Let's start with the most important: minutes must be taken at each meeting.
count, this protocol-keeping should be a variable’ responsibility of everyone
member of the circle in order to accustom him to write down the essence of the debate. Also pre-
presiding at meetings ‘must be variable, one must learn to lead
lead the debate and not let it deviate. Each referent must
wives give the abstracts of their report in advance; if possible, it is advisable to multiply them
live and distribute to participants in advance. mug. Each opponent, in addition to the record
The secretary of his objections is obliged to give a brief summary of them. All this will give so little
The technique we are learning is to accurately, clearly, and most importantly, briefly express our thoughts. Voz-
it is possible and even desirable to publish your own organ by a number of circles united

in

No. 3 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 25

club, a kind of federal republic. It is desirable that everything is achieved
The activities of such circle work did not remain the private property of the participantin,
but became common property. Our “Proletarian Culture” will give a place to
their pages to pictures of the creative life of proletarian circles. Together
However, we believe that it is time for Proletkult to begin developing its own programs.
Letarian programs for independent reading with subsequent guidance
this reading. Only by thoroughly cleaning pure metal from all kinds of
slag we will conquer our science, be it in mathematical formulas or in
poetic images.

But every participant must always keep in mind our ultimate goal. C0-
socialism is extremely obligatory, and that mistakes of immature thought and unclear
new consciousness, it is absolutely unacceptable for convinced socialists.
There is no doubt that the path we propose is not easy, but the achievements are great.
this way. “Proletkult” is not a stencil that can be easily mastered by anyone who picks it up.
it into your own hands, no. It's long, hard work. Otherwise, after all
we will equate both our proletarian science and our proletarian ‹ art with
that pleasant summer lemonade that the singer Felitsa Derzhavin considered poetry,
who saw his main importance not in the title of poet, but in the title of the Tsar's minister
Justice.

Art. Krivtsov.

Class theater.

‚ Not only representatives of the proletariat write about class theater, not only
supporters of the proletarian worldview, This. pay attention to the issue
and representatives of old, bourgeois art. They are trying to maintain their gaze
on art and theater in particular, as something, in no relation to the general
not worth it to the public classes. Speaking on the pages of the general press, they stre-
They are trying to instill this view in the masses. The working class must understand the philosophical
philosophy of the ideologists of bourgeois art and contrast it with their own philosophy.

In No. 2 of the Moscow “New Life” he published the article “National. and class
vyy theater" V. M. Volkenshtein.

“Genuine art is popular among all the people”, class art is evangelical,
and therefore it is bad art, that’s the main idea of his article,

There is hardly anyone who seriously consideredis a phenomenon of art
a drama written for the sole purpose of proving something, someone. in something
convince it. d. A play in which everything is subordinated to the deliberate desire of the author
to defend this or that idea, in which the images for this are pulled by the hair,
to anyone with the slightest bit of artistic taste it will seem like a pipe,
an unnecessary counterfeit of art, but not art itself. This kind of pro-
we exclude the works from our attention.

But the concept of bias is often significant. expand so much
that any work in which this or that critic
will feel a mood hostile to his class consciousness. In this case
what seems tendentious to some is completely unacceptable to others.
known, and vice versa. Then the crux of the matter lies in the bias of criticism itself, and
not art.

It is necessary once and for all to renounce the thought that is firmly entrenched in
in the heads of bourgeois representatives of art, that the concept of “tendentious”
and “class” art cover one another. When Marxists. they say that
art has always been class-based, that the art of recent eras has been bourgeois
the last thing they want to say is that it was biased, they want to say
only that this art was a synthesis of the moods and experiences of classes, its
who gave birth and consumed it. Bourgeois artists and critics, considering
its art to the people, we don’t think about class (read proletarian) art
26 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 3

They speak otherwise than as tendentious. This, however, is quite understandable. The bourgeoisie is always
identified herself with all the people. The bourgeoisie as a whole is subjectively quite
‘I am sincerely convinced that she, possessing the entire culture, is identical with the people.
Objectively, this is, of course, not the case.

V. M. Volkenshtein writes: “Drama is not a sermon.” Absolutely right
It’s true: if it became a sermon, it would cease to be art. "Drama,"
he continues, “a spectacle of struggle; people who are obsessed with passion appear on the stage
sti; pursuing their goals, they confuse each otherha to the event node; they
violate the laws of morality, statehood, religion, they seek justification for themselves
nia, using all the means of his intelligence and cunning; they die when they reach
to the highest strain of one’s strength, having exhausted oneself”...

But after all, “the laws of morality, statehood, religion.” different social
different classes are thought of differently. I’m unlikely to argue against this myself.
V. M. Volkenshtein. And where the “good” bourgeois sees and experiences the real
essentially a dramatic struggle, a clash, say, of personal passion with morality,
there, a person who takes a proletarian point of view will not see any reason
for the fight. The first will leave the theater, overwhelmed with sympathy for the hero, shocked
fascinated by the spectacle of a struggle that was understandable and close to him. The second one will think about unnecessary
new struggle, about the fruitless waste of strength generated by belief in old fetishes,
And although there is no bias in this drama, the weight of its content, the very knot of the struggle
and passions are alien to proletarian psychology, do not infect the worker with sympathy,
for what he sees and hears is not his, it is the realm of someone else’s experiences,
not giving rise to resonance in his soul: it is tuned in a completely different way.

V. M. Volkenshtein is even ready to allow reflection in works of art.
ties of the class origin of their author. “Of course,” he says, “social
the origin of the author is reflected in his work; his way of life
his sympathies and antipathies show through, if not in words, then between the words of the actors
persons; but what do we care about that? We are not interested in the author as a public figure.
tel. We can neglect his social tendency, his conclusions, us
we are captivated by his artistic spontaneity, we value his fantasy, his
temperament, his passion for the destinies of his heroes.”

“First of all, what does the author’s social activity have to do with it? Is it really only
class sentiments, likes and dislikes depend on its presence, reflecting
those involved in drama? And then, how can one renounce everything that
indicates V. M. Volkenshtein. Etch everything he wearsWhat about the author's stamp?
And if “we value the author’s passion for the destinies of his heroes,” then isn’t that exactly what it is?
his “likes and dislikes,” which supposedly can be “neglected”? Try it
eradicate from Ibsen's dramas the individualistic aristocratic character that permeates them
hundred-cratism of spirit, which is undoubtedly dictated by “social origin”
author, what will happen? After all, in dramas emasculated in this way, you will not feel
You are listening to Ibsen. Free yourself from the class psychology of the author that colors
his works are impossible. And this means that there is no “national” art,
but there is only the art of class.

Another prominent figure in theatrical art is F. F. Komissarzhev-
sky—in the article “Workers’ Theatre” (“Free Life” No. 3) protests against the pre-
rotation of the theater “into a means of struggle for political ideas and into a tribune, proclaimed
striving and defending the socialist system, what they want to turn the theater into
"Party intellectuals, socialists." This is seen as common for supporters
bourgeois theory of the “material uselessness” of art ` habit of thinking
This is art beyond time and space. F. F. Kommissarzheveky, obviously
forgets or simply does not want to remember about the huge social drama that
is being played out now in life, that theater in such times of crisis serves
a weapon of struggle against a society that has become obsolete and declining [Romain Rolland].
"Did, for example, in France before its Great Revolution and during it
Beaumarchais, which, by the way, happened to be staged by the Commissar himself -
Ezhevsky—did not serve as a weapon in the struggle of the emerging bourgeois system
against the old, feudal?
3: PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 27

The main mistake in F. F. Komissarzhevsky’s reasoning is that
that he thinks of socialism exclusively in political terms, missing
bearing in mind that socialism is a holistic worldview that decisively embraces
the whole person, all his sides. Otherwise he would not bet in one line, although
contrasting them, the “socialist” theater and the “monarchical” theater and in general
"waterchesical". Otherwise he would not have said that “the workers’ theater will be insofar as
valuable from an artistic point of view, since the worker will freely express in it
your immediate creative feeling, your soul, and not at all this or that
socialist ideas and programs” (our italics K.M.). The proletarian, realizing
who lost his class position and threw off the ideological influence of the bourgeois
artists and scientists, “creative feeling,” “soul”—certainly
are socialistic and cannot be otherwise.

The article under discussion characteristically reflects the thinking generated by
hoy of capitalist production with its anarchy and its individual
tical formulation of the organization of individual enterprises. According to views
F. F. Kommissarzhevoky, “for the artist, the action around him
activity with all its ideas, feelings, usefulness and uselessness
there is chaos. Perceiving this chaos, experiencing it. passing through those
individual feelings and ideas that arise in him at this perception,
the artist in himself transforms the chaos of reality into harmonious works
Denia". Isn’t this how the capitalist views reality? He finds the same
chaos in the market world, in the disorganization of production in general and, re-
living this reality, he individually organizes his own from its elements
“Harmonic work” means one’s own economy, enterprise. Socialist worker
of course, he does not think of reality as chaos, he sees in it a well-known law-
number, on the basis of which he builds “his new world.”

F. F. Komissarzhevsky says that “every artistic” work
the work expresses the individual psychology of the artist who created this work.
production. And every artistic direction reflects the psychology of that
environment in the atmosphere of which this direction was created, developed and strengthened.”
That's fair. This is what socialists mean by the concept of “class art”
stvo". But this correct thought did not in the least prevent the author from
kami below talk about“specialists of modern universal human, extracurricular
"new theater". It is unlikely that Mr. Komissarzhevsky seriously thinks that “modern
"universal theater" also expresses the biology of the proletariat,

It is not true that socialists see, as F. F. Kommiesarjevsky thinks,
“the whole meaning of the proletarian theater is in the proletarian plots of the plays,” meaning
They are only “the struggle of labor and capital, the struggle of classes, the victory of the proletariat.”
Not only the class struggle, but all the moods, experiences and aspirations of social
stical proletariat must find a place in the plays of the workers' repertoire,
and the whole life of society must be reflected in it, but only from the proletarian point of view
vision. Now the focus, the center of the life of the working class, is the struggle
with the bourgeoisie, and it is natural that now they mainly talk about these
ketah.

It also does not correspond to the truth that “everything that speaks about the working proletarian
Russian theater, they see the creator of this theater as the proletariat.” In creating such a theater
Representatives of other groups and layers can and do take part, but
who managed to take the proletarian point of view, who adopted the socialist
worldview. This, like the restriction necessary in this case, is sufficient
fully clarified in the article by Comrade. F. Kalinin “Proletariat and Creativity” in No. 1 on-
our magazine.

The author cannot imagine what it’s like to create a “theatrical performance”
the masses can take part, “It is natural that for a talented director
The commissar, who is accustomed to embodying his ‘individuality’ in his productions
a dual artistic idea, subordinating both the decorative artist and the actor to it,
this participation is unclear. But no matter how much the director feels like an autocrat
on stage, he cannot help but listen to the voice of the entire team, working
We worked together with him to celebrate the performance. One has only to involve students in this
=>

28 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 3
space and spectators, so that what the socialists are talking about happens. For individual
This is incomprehensible to a dualist-director. For the worker, for the socialist, accustomed
to the teamin our work, this is certain. }
F. F. Komissarzhevsky is quite right when he talks about the need to “know
bringing together workers with the theory and practice of theatrical art by creating
free schools and studios." He is right when he says that working in these studios
“you need to approach it not with the stamped stencil techniques of traditional
theater training and acting." Here, more than anywhere else, it is impossible to teach
“chiprate”, but you just need to cultivate, develop and direct individuality
students, so that they retain that spiritual spontaneity that
alone can create their own, artistic-workers’ theatre.”
And in this work, of course, the help of specialists will be extremely valuable. But
From them the proletariat should take only the technique of the matter, and not the ideological direction.
In the process of work, creating its own culture, the proletariat will create its own theatrical
technique best adapted to the essence of proletarian art
etva. But now taking everything that can and should be taken from the bourgeois inheritance,
the proletariat must implement all this in its own way, completely sweeping away the bourgeoisie
new ideology. at
K. Malinin.

Towards the convening of an All-Russian conference of proletarians
cultural and educational organizations. ‘)

Abstracts of reports.
Proletarian Club.

1. By creating its new proletarian culture, the working class creates new
forms of public communication.

Already now we can notice the beginnings of these forms, their spirit, their principles.

2. In his struggle for a new system of all social life—socialism—-
the working class is following different paths, with political and economic
the forms of this struggle now stand, of necessity, on the same plane as the forms
developed by the bourgeois way of life.

3. We see something different in the field of cultural construction of the working class,

Here we have our own forms, completely different from the bourgeois ones.

In this construction, the proletariat can now build on new
lectivistic principles.

The concentration of creativity of new cultural forms, the working workshop of
letariata, we consider it a proletarian club.

A. A truly proletarian club, and not the usually encountered type of these institutions.
expectations, must be built on the creative initiative of its members and must
to be a small prototype of future social forms.

The club should be our club, where every member should feel
himself as a full-fledged owner-employee.

5. The First International proclaimed that there are no rights without duties, but
there are no responsibilities without rights, and even earlier socialism set the motto: from everyone
according to his ability, to each according to his needs. these same principles should form the basis
the basics of club life

The club is created by the voluntary consent of the proletarians who understand its necessity.
walking for your mental liberation.

1) See M1i` No. 2. The work plan of the conference and the norms of representation have been slightly changed"
veins Org. Bureau at the suggestion of comrades from Petrograd. +
®
.

M3Z PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 29

This outlines the basic position that each member must be active
a proud citizen of his small partnership,

The spirit of collectivist camaraderie should be imbued with all
work of the proletarian club.

6. But the club, as a workers’ association, cannot close itself, and, on the contrary,
mouth, he must recruit his own members and look for them everywhere.

Hence the open rather than closed character of the 6th. `

He must make all his achievements and discoveries public.
valuable property and thereby increase the craving for oneself.

Its comradeship. it will clearly have a collectivist attitude
destroy everyday individualism—the legacy of the bourgeois system.

7. All laboratories and workshops will find their natural place in its environment
proletarian creativity, including all kinds of circles.

These creative attempts must be comprehensive, universal
character, so that one-sidedness does not turn out to be disastrous for the whole matter.

8. This is our ideal, and we must strive for it, changing as stated
higher outlines of currently existing forms of club life,

At the same time, things need to be put in such a way that in the creative process, aboutpleading
active, new forms of public involved as many comrades as possible
cabbage soup, so that this process becomes as widespread as possible.

9. The same principle forces a division of membership in the proletarian club
to actual and competitive.

The latter, competitive members, are drawn into the club by their achievements.
new world (these paths are different), and we must strive to ensure that the distrustful
the stranger stood at our common machine as quickly as possible.

10. Approximate ways of this: first, a passive visit to the dining room, then
the transition to exciting entertainment (it's the essence, not the name), which causes
the natural desire to receive this spiritual food more often will disappear (at first purely
consumer point of view); This is where you can demand help from a stranger,
for the first time, at least purely technically, in the kitchen where this food is prepared
spiritual.

Once the first step is taken, club life will captivate the member-employee and inevitably
will make him a full member, and after completing this experience, he will receive school
public:

11. But for all this to succeed, the club must keep both feet firmly planted
on the sinful earth and not shy away from it, but, no, fight these sins of its own
forces.

Hence the permissibility in the proletarian. dance club, sports club, etc. After all, in
Only the strong in spirit and body will enter the kingdom of the future.

The will to victory over the vulgarity of everyday life and over ignorance. ovla-
The sharing of knowledge that is now reserved is the ideal of the proletarian club.

12. The existing clubs, of course, are far from our ideal, and the task
in relation to them comes down to their gradual transformation in the indicated
higher spirit.

There may be equal transitional types that are impossible to detail -
call in advance

: St. Krivtsov.
FLYING AWAY CULTURE.

Chronicle of Proletkult.

In the province.

During summer time the natural world freezes
the activities of the working class in construction
to the existence of new cultural forms. This season-
the low tide forces comrades to put
the question of the reasons for the failure of some
new beginnings pastin winter. Yes
Comrade Kudelli reasonably pointed out to “Northern Truth”
calls that our club life is dying down
because we do not seek to agitate about
importance of the club, we do not try to drag into the club-
a new life for backward elements of the working class.
Along the way, a comrade notices a very interesting
different difference between today's workers' leaders
clubs from figures from the times of the counter-revolution
1905-1906 Then, as part of the club ra-
nerds we had ‘the most intelligent
the upper ranks of the working class, who are
Club life got its training
to his political work, but
we don't have them in our clubs now
ranks, and the ways of our work are all old,
designed just for them. For usnekh
things need to be changed and methods, and most importantly
intensively recruit into the club, attract into
him, and not push him away. And then it’s everywhere
we are observing the phenomenon that is being complained about
organizers of the Kashinsky workers' club.
Of the 70 who signed up for the first founding
Only 20 showed up for the club meeting. Therefore
the initiators are making warm appeals
come to the club and join its ranks
members, exclaiming: “We must remember that we have mastered
waking up from the darkness of tempo and ignorance
can only be achieved through our efforts
lias." And these’ efforts are to our happiness
are being done. From Revdinsky plant to Ural-
comrade Worker” Comrade Kuznetsov writes about that custom
military mood that prevails
among the workers, We need to shake ourselves up and start
cultural work, “Take example from our
class enemies—the bourgeoisie, which, green-
perfectly understanding the ‘importance of science for business’
‘government of the country, forced her to study
sons. Without mastering knowledge, we will not retain
authorities, comrade rightly notes, But
there are already the first swallows, which they
greets: “Good morning.” A folk one has been created
house where an already existing club was merged
workers, and after him, stubbornly, the drama
tic circle. The conference is authorized
allocated funds from the health insurance fund for this
5,000 rub. “Unfortunately, we must add to
to our shame and at this conference
there were voices against itoh appropriations.” But
the foundation has been laid and the Revdians are facing
the main task is to energetically take the reconquest
The kingdom of darkness has its worshipers and slaves.”

In these statements, and they can be multiplied
but desire, we notice a clear awareness
extreme urgency to strengthen
positions of the working class in cultural affairs
construction. But maybe it's now
an extra waste of our energy, which is needed
concentrate the wind only in the political
fight against the bourgeoisie. Echoes "obviously"
similar views is the polemic “Or-
lovsnyh Izvestia" with the Oryol organ

communists. The question is posed syllable by syllable
t, Gorasi ma Chudakova like this: is it possible during
social revolution to glorify personal feelings

‚stva or indicate the proletarian as such

he! is with all the advantages and disadvantages -
kami. Comrade Chudakov reasonably points out that
individual parties, however, may consist
of fanatics (example Narodnaya Volya), but this
unthinkable for the whole class. Prodetarkat
as a class, of course, sinless, but each
the proletarian is a living person, Erotica,
for example, appears back in the days of Ka-
century (sculptural images of women
Schin), that means in an era when no
the bourgeoisie cannot even be said, And finally,
and among each group we have exceptions:
the author takes the clergy and along with the priest
remembers Francis of Assisi and Feodor
Novgorodsky. And ends his story
to the new moral censors as follows: “To fight
The proletariat goes to fight with the bourgeoisie ©
bourgeoisie and we should call it. But you can't
should we consider everything that has appeared to be bourgeois
before the dictatorship of the proletariat. Otherwise
otherwise the noble and reasonable ones will not be fulfilled
the desires of Marx, Entels and Lenin (angry
in our opinion, the author will go against the collective
istic point of view. Art. Kr.), and implemented
there is a stupid dream of a stupid and drunk
Andreevsky theroy, and “the naked man remains-
‘there is nothing on the bare ground’. However, politics, especially
Especially the acute civil war deprives
sometimes our ability to work is cut off
us from many areas, why we don’t knowhey,
How do comrades manage to implement’
their noble dreams of glory.

The organizational issue is important. Thoth-
riches from the Siu factory through bitter experience
knew the need for something separate from employees
cultural construction factories. Between
among other things, these same comrades found new sources
nicks of funds for cultural work, for what,
I think we need to pay the most serious attention
mania to all comrades, In view of nationalization
tions of their prediriya they freed non-
which °/, deductions and they used them for
cultural needs. Increased
construction of circles: from Vladimir sooi-
they talk about two circles - Bogolyubovsky’s message -
builds his library, and Kolokshaneki - va-
family home, and used funds for
help local 'county council of dept. The fussers
on the initiative of the intelligentsia some
Spassky's mugs directed their energy
to the cause of theatrical creativity. Lots of tea
mine sweeping studios are being created in Moscow, so
they were created at the Abrikosov factory and also
in several areas. Yves Petersburg co-
they are talking about creating a studio at the sailors' club
solo, singing and oratory. We
would prefer not solo studios, but choral studios,
since here the number of
creative creativity, the main element of pro-
letariat.

Independent cultural work
letariat is unthinkable without the activity of its
organoE-proletkults. Let's move on to the review
their work. From Perm they write to us: “Local
No. 3

Proletkult is still in the period
construction - arose more recently (at the end
March) and has not yet developed all of its departments
fishing Currently it serves the
native population and workers of the Moto-
Vilikha, but as he strengthens he means
extend its influence throughout the whole
Bernia, which he is already doing" (see below about
Osinsk branch of the Perm Proletcult,
(t. Vr.). The possibilities for this seem to be
available. Department of N.O. of the local Council of Deputies
700,000 rubles were allocated to him. Please contact
the last circumstance is the special attention of those
who are always ready to deal in word and deed
mess up work Moscowovsky "Proletkult".
Of the undertakings of the Perm comrades, especially
interesting is their attempt to transform the yoke
permanent booths to places of genuine pro-
flying art. This desire to restore
use. on the street you can only say hello
to know, From Osa they report in the local “Izvest-
events”, as well as in Usolsk celebrations
the official opening of the Perm proletarian branch
cult. “With this discovery,” according to a friend
Tarutin—representative of the district council of deputies—
we will lay the cornerstone of social
lism." And Comrade Schendel, chairman of the local
cultural and educational department, in its
heatedly argued that the question of pro-
Letarian culture is highlighted,
Not immediately, but gradually we conquer with our
steel-willed culture. Taking what's valuable from
accumulated wealth, kill the old forms,
Let's destroy what's rotten. Now I'm free
and the brave one (the proletarian) will put forward again
mighty creators. They're coming. Unnoticed in
all proletarian cells flare up
sparkles. and light it up. Is it in your soul

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

57

workers, there is no courage in your calloused hands"
ardent desires and daring and colorful thoughts...
“We,” the speaker concludes, “are entering a new
period of a new renaissance." So from the holiday
creative work begins among the proletariat,
From Kaluga they dryly report that there, too,
was called the local proletkult. Due to
the last Smolensk conference,
who lived the beginning of proletkult and on
which heard reports from Prolet
riat and science", "Universal compulsory education
concept of the proletariat", "Proletariat and temptation
education”, “On physical education”, etc., in
in the local Izvestia we find an interesting
article by Comrade Knorin with the history of its origin
proletkult and the goals it sets for itself,
The author compares the labor movement to a trident
and indicates that “cultural and educational
movement, the third prong of the working class
movement, develops only
now, when this foundation, this basis is small
I am strengthened... These questions become
questions of life, and Proletkult should
be organizedie masses",

The upcoming all-Russian con-
the influence of proletcults begins to attract
attract the attention of the labor press. Reprint
articles by T. P. I. Lebedev (V, Polyanskaya) about
tasks we find in Arkhantel and
Perm "Izvestia", and "Northern Commune"
Gave a very sympathetic note.

Your review, how. always, we finish
I warmly ask my comrades to write to us
about holidays and everyday life of cultural
mouths and noah are completely shaped.

You are especially interested in how things are going
the life of your cells,

St, Krivtsov,

Bibliography.

_ Ah, Bogdanov. "Red Star" (Utopia).
2nd ed. Number of writers. M. 1918 fr. 00 k.
175 pp.

A. Bogdanov. "Innokener Manny." Fanta
stic novel. 2nd year "Wave". M. 1918
Sp. 60 books, 144 pages.

Books usually have their own extremely
tortured fate. Let's take two novels by T. A,
Bogdanov and try to remember that
the impression they made in my
ment of its first edition. It was November
1907, when the “Red Star” appeared:
the reaction has already come into full force,
but among us, ordinary workers of Bolshevism,
hopes for something close have not yet died
revival of the revolution, and just such a la-
we saw the line in this novel, Inter-
It is clear to note that for many of us
the main idea went completely unnoticed
author about organized society and
principles of this organization. Still about the ro-
a lot of mana. spoke in party circles.
But when in November 1912 we met
made fun of "Engineer Manny", the picture was
completely different. Already, however, it was planned
the coming rise, but in the present there were su-

standards for many of our comrades,
why the novel was accepted as truly fan
tastic, and little was said about it.

But the doctor's dreams came true. Werner
and Manny, the victorious revolution was accomplished
tion, and we began to organize the forces of our
class for the coming struggle for socialism.
And now. at this moment, a new appearance
the combination of these two dream novels is impossible
more timely. In fact, everything
without distinction of factions, they believe thatabout man-
the kingdom in its entirety is approaching the kingdom
freedom - socialism. Already now that's why
we need to outline how we are trying to
put this state of the ‘future. After all,
many under the influence of food organization
freedom affairs in our wartime
true socialism begins to appear
fall into some kind of “card” socialism,
when everyone will work and use the software
products on cards. That's why car-
the picture of socialist life depicted by the artist
torus, deserves the most intense attention
worker mania.

The first novel depicts life already
a completely organized system, such as
how it emerged as a result of two hundred years
PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

him of the rule of socialism. Therefore, the main
no’ task is exclusively organi-
ization of production, and one of the most important
places in the life of “Red Star” occupies
The institute of accounting, which takes into account the “movements”
storage of products in warehouses, production
activity of all enterprises and changes
number of workers in it." This way exactly
it becomes clear how much and what should be produced
conduct for a certain period and for how long
This requires working hours. at

The difference is communicated throughout. Flow up-
volunteers will then restore balance,
A stranger from earth is perplexed, but how can...
consumption, is it really not limited by anything?
What?—and receives the answer: Absolutely nothing,
everyone takes what he needs and how much he needs
I want to. There is no shortage of labor, since
“in free labor we have even without it (obligation)
zest) there is no shortage: labor
natural need of a developed social
man, and all sorts of disguised
no or obvious coercion to work with 0-
completely unnecessary for us” (“Kr. Zvezda”,
68 pages). True, before there was such an obligation
compulsory labor, using
our current term (1914-1918).
The Martian says this: "Creature-
is a compulsory working day, and during it,
affairs it was not always and not entirely
to respect the calling of his comrades. But every
invention, creating temporary statistics
more difficultniya, made the task easier—
transition to unlimited freedom of labor"
(69 pages). All this is alien to the alien’s psyche
from the earth, who sets himself the task: “we must
comprehend and enter”, and at the same time feel
clinks; “I don’t know how to feel the way I do-
mother." A new psyche is created and social
listic youth not immediately, No, no,
Yes, and there is a return to the old system
thoughts, and the author gives an extremely interesting
picture of the education of Martians (73-75 pp.),
introduces us to poetry and the art of future
shchy (83-85 pp.), tells how he,
man—the product of bourgeois capital—
pistic era, scary 'difficult to enter
even outwardly into the labor socialist
life where much is required from culture
mind and attention, which we do not possess, and in re-
As a result, his psyche cannot stand it, and he
temporarily mentally ill. NV mass
new external impressions are mixed
also a deep experience: his novel
with socialist Natty; here is a vampire - past
loye - grabs him and leads to murder
the first 'husband of his beloved, although this
the murder is also colored by his sorrow for that
the fate that Storni is preparing for the earth, with
by all its inhabitants.

In the second novel, A. Bogdanov draws
the way the Martians came to social
lism. Social life there was less
harsh character, and class struggle pro-
stool in much milder forms than
on the ground. The figure of an engineer passes in front of us.
nera Manny, for whom his business is circumvention
the vision of vast deserts is higher than personal
life and personal ambition. But this hero
a great man is a child of the old world and not
can take a long time to understand the aspirations of a new pro-
the awakening world of work. When will he

No. 35

feels like he did everything he could
Next he will have the life of a vampire, i.e.
a creature living at the expense of others, he
voluntarily leaves life, In general, in the future
In this structure, the author draws that natural
death, about which I. I wrote so much,
Mechnikov.

When the workers find out about the crimes,
that took place around great works
after Mavni was removed from their leadership
Aldo, u na bitter cry breaks out from them,
and these revelations they are forced only
to believe, not to know. To this the son of an individual
sheet Manny - socialist Nomi's statements -
gives us thoughts that we can't help but think. at-
news on the pages of our magazine “0Ob-
jerks and crumbs of knowledge are not something you can handle
consciously solve the most difficult and... important:
new questions of life... For the proletarian,
Only what was won for everyone was fought.
Modern science is the same as society,
which created her: she is strong, but separates
nena, and a lot of strength in her is wasted in vain,
In its fragmentation, each part developed
separately and lost a living connection with others.
That's why a lot of ugliness happened, a lot
fruitless tricks and confusion. Alone
and the same things, the same thoughts in a rush
industries have dozens of different expressions
and in each of them are studied as something
new. Every industry has its own language—
privilege for initiates, obstacle
for everyone else. There are many difficulties in
is born because science has become detached from
life, forgot about my origin, re"
became ‘conscious of her purpose, hence
imaginary tasks and often roundabout paths in pro-
questions.,. Such as science is now,
not suitable for the working class, and therefore
that it is too difficult, and because it is not
sufficient, He must master it, changing
eo. In his hands she should become incomparable
infinitely simpler, slimmer, and more vital. It is necessary
to overcome its fragmentation, we must bring it closer together
with difficulty, its first source. This is huge
nal work (“Engineer Manny”, 67-69 pp.).
And in the future, under Natty, a whole
cultural revolutionary school, as a result
tate of collective labor which was
new science, general organizational
science (pp. 141-142). Our magazine is just
and is an attempt to make these dreams come true
Etty, and how strange it is for us to write these lines
now in 1918 as we remember
skepticism of many in 1912. The task is
set, it must be resolved.

And the study of such works is just
utopias we choose, it will help a lot
for the workers to understand the task and outlinethe path to its resolution is not an easy path for us
we have a lot of hard work ahead
must be put down, but the great ones are waiting for us
this path of achievement. In a short note
it is difficult to cover all the richness of the content
novels, for this purpose more than one article is needed.
Therefore, we warmly recommend everyone to work
how to get acquainted directly with them,
and then their spontaneous desire and knowledge is gained
read in their eyes the correct lighting
and will be directed along the right path.

With. d.
m PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 33.

Julien Tierso. "/Celebrations and songs
French Revolution." Translation © French-
skiy K. Zhikhareva. Ed. "Tarus." 1917
4 rub. 266 pp.

Turning to past heroic revolutions
judging times of one class or another,
the working class can find many instructive
something for yourself, and most importantly, clarifying many
processes of social life and its creative
stavva, No one disputes the term bourgeoisie
science and art in relation to forms
XVIII century, but very few give themselves
even in how these forms were created, or,
or rather,
edit, Book 'Tierso about the festivities of the Great
the French Revolution sheds a lot
light on many aspects of the formation of this
new art,

In fact, with the exception of the Olympics
games in ancient Greece or religious
great mysteries of the Middle Ages, in no era
we do not have such an abundance of popular
celebrations They wear. different character,
depending on what attention is directed to
nis of the people - a triumph of memories © pa-
Denia Bastille, funerals and commemorations of their
leaders, celebrations in honor of a new religion—
supreme being, or joy on occasion
victories won; all this combines into a can-

than the rush of the people, and all these festivities
are of a national character, already after.
the origin of these celebrations, leaders

politicians decided to use art
tion for policy direction, given
the enormous organizing role of art
(pages 10 and 178), and in the last country
The author literally says the following:
"Perhaps the Committee of Public Safety
created an illusion for himself by looking atart-
stvo, you are a means of managing people; but
his attempts to create republican art
quality, even immature ones, are extremely commendable
and interesting." :

But politicians paid attention to the people
new festivities after they
arose. Therefore, it is extremely interesting
Tierso's tale about how the holiday arose
July 44, 1790, first anniversary
revolution. Neither the king nor the rulers,
there was not the slightest upper bourgeoisie
want to remember July 14, but Parisians
could not pass by him, and the idea of per-
new holiday - holiday of the federation of the world
ninla spontaneously, the reason was
consecration of new banners of the national guard
days, and the people with silent consent worked out
tal the program of the celebration. And because of the struggle
ra this holiday, when there were no rulers
no help, but rather even hindrance,
the first revolutionary anthem appeared—Saga.
“It’s forming,” the Parisians said, following the example
Franklin in these days of preparing his
festivities, and a walker was strapped to it
motive. Which? And here's something interesting
creativity. Tiersot (p. 50) points out that
the source of the music for this hymn was
Parisian dance party, Here
people, dancing to the lively, frivolous
motive, picked it up so beautifully

how they consciously tried to co-.

evening. and in the morning he carried it to the pier
wealth dug up by his hands. That's why
It was composed by everyone. And it’s not for nothing
the ruins of the Bastille were on this holiday
there is an inscription: “They dance here”; And dey-
Indeed, the people in the whirlwind of general animation
Niya let out into a joyful dance. Plyasovoy
origin and Carmagnola, which also
danced. Greatness is clearly evident here
zero creativity. From a vulgar quadrini
Bekur created a hymn, before which
the whole old feudal world trembled. And one more thing
Tierso notes one thing: all songs
the victorious people are frivolous and bloodless
greedy, the bourgeoisie creates something else for itself after
Victory 9 Thermidor, Song of the Triumphant
the bourgeoisie is so full of hatred that
even the Directory was forced to ban
consumethe song is supposedly “Awakening on-
kind."

Originating spontaneously, the festivals
are the subject of study and conscious
creativity, the most majestic -
ment of the nationwide celebration must be
know the performance of all Parisians
to the Supreme Being at a festival in honor of
him. Truly this was the first implementation
Beethoven's dreams of the fusion of all types of music
cal art, given by him in the Hymn of Ra-
dosti (9th symphony). The people learned the anthem
Gossec and collectively performed it. And mu-
Zykants, a whole galaxy with Gossek in the glam,
and the artists, led by David, are trying
create plans for the people's festival. Opinion
We cited Tierso's attempts above.
But for us, when we dream about our art
in organizing our great effort
creativity of new forms of life, even more important
his next words: “But can art
the ability of the future to stand on solid ground, donkeys
will draw its inspiration from the ideals
similar to the ideals of the creators of the ‘revolution’. Important
nary problem, the solution of which is now
You can’t even dream of it, but put it up anyway
follows" (6 pages). “We must look for new sources
nicks of inspiration and get closer to the people.
When the formula is found, you need to invest
into it the ideas most capable of inspiring
artistic creativity. They are countless.
Remaining in the field of collective pro-
phenomena, it is not difficult to indicate what they can be
be these ideas in which feeling is revealed
solidarity, freedom, respect for the great
examples, work, brotherhood, love. And all this
lends itself so beautifully to interpretation
language of sounds" (19 pages). The art of music
The twentieth century has already produced several such examples -
Beethoven, Berlioz, Wagner, a’ from Russians
Scriabin, these are the creators of program music,
and in their footsteps we need to create. How is she
will come—©it’s difficult to say in advance, but an example
Bekura's quadrille shows how much non-
what might be expected on this path.

If the team wants to clarify issues,
great creativity of artistic forms and their
national organizing significance should
get acquainted with the most interesting work
Tierso.` TR.

The editors of the journal ask you to send them work journals for review.
and collections of proletarian writers and poets.

"Iroletarian Culture", No. 3.

LIBRARY-READING ROOM

34 ь PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 3

TWO REVIEWS.

Two reviews appeared on No. 1 of our magazine “Proletarskaya Kultura”;

one in No. 147 of Izvestia V. Ts. I. Ko, another in Pravda No. 152.
' The first of them, signed by K. Z., is entitled: “The first pancake is lumpy” and
ends with the most merciless verdict: “in general, the magazine is capable
to render only a disservice to the cause of Proletkult. In No. 2 the editors noted
and “ideological value” and in general the level of criticism of K. 3.; we don't need
It’s impossible to dwell on it again. We refer the inquisitive reader to pre-
previous issue of “Proletarskaya! ‘cultures’. And in general we are talking about this “criticism”
only because she, thanks to random circumstances, appeared on
pages of Izvestia and could mislead readers, not all of them, of course,
but those who have not yet had time to familiarize themselves with our magazine.

A completely different value is presented by the critical note of Comrade
N. Bukharin in Pravda - and not because, of course, the author “all the articles published
found in the magazine interesting and instructive,” and some even enjoyed
satisfying the most pampered" and demanding reader, and not only
because he warmly welcomes the new magazine, “wishing it great success.”

. Bukharin, agreeing with our ideological position on the need for such
qualified proletarian organization like "Proletkult" that we
We welcome and - we will not hide from the reader - we state with pleasure, at the same time
specifically objects to the organizational plan we are planning; but these
discussions are in the nature of a joint, comradely discussion of something so important,
a new and big question, like proletarian culture.

At the end of his note, I. Bukharin writes: “In the bibliographic department there are
absolutely correct characteristics of various kinds of magazines that have appeared
in our book market. Their camaraderiecriticism is more than appropriate, and “Pro-
Letarian Culture" coped with this task perfectly," Such a comradely
We also demand criticism from ourselves. We will always and willingly listen to her
judgments, as long as criticism is not caused by outsiders interfering with the matter
considerations. We know that only in collective creativity can something be born
the right solution; We have no claims to papal infallibility. Your mistakes -
are common to everyone, not only to individuals, but even to large groups.

Comrade Bukharin considers the statement of Comrade V. Po-
Lyansky, that this kind of laboratory (a laboratory of purely class ideology)
must be “independent” of the organs of the proletarian dictatorship, or that
“proletarian culture can develop only... outside of any decreed
nia". :

It seems to us that Comrade. Bukharin and comrade Polyansky is not a discrepancy, but a convergence
There is a misunderstanding caused by the conciseness of the wording. Firstly, comrade. Bukharin
loses sight of the fact that we have a dictatorship not only of the city proletariat, but also
the poorest peasantry, which is still very, very deeply imbued with
visualistic tendencies; on the other hand, we have absolutely nothing
We are against the idea that Proletkult should be a purely proletarian laboratory
theory under Soviet organizations, their independent department. Such a department
there is under the People's Commissariat of Education; we always defend it and will
to defend at the All-Russian Conference of proletarian cultural and educational
ny organizations. We just want this department to be truly self-sufficient.
It is worthwhile for the laboratory to be truly classy.

Soviet organizations do not always and not everywhere have a purely classist character.
ter. In district towns, suburbs, factories, somewhere among Muromeki
or Ryazan forests, in Soviet institutions there is a lot of petty-bourgeois and petty-bourgeois
important element, which, recognizing the dictatorship of the proletariat and the poorest

‚ peasantry, at the same time carefully goes to church and makes decisions 06.
compulsory trainingthe law of God.

Comrade Polyansky formulated the task of Proletkult this way: “It is bound to be
free from all conditions that stifle the scope and ideological purity of work,” which
No. 3 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 3

ate

‚ fall (inevitably and unfortunately, we add) on state apparatuses,
thanks to the coalition with the peasant masses, whose leaders hesitate, looking for
salvation in the petty bourgeois element,

Like us, comrade. Bukharin is for. independence and ideological purely class
work of Proletkult. There is no misunderstanding here. Consequently, it remains to be seen
a thread on how to create the conditions necessary for Proletkult at the moment. This
The question is no longer fundamental, but a practical one, a question of the second order. Let's
discuss it fully.

If someone proves to us that we are wrong, then, in addition to satisfaction,
we cannot experience anything else; and now for nao the question is not entirely clear,
we have a large share of skepticism, and we fear that the philistine and petty
bourgeoisism in the Soviet environment will interfere with purely class revolutionary
cultural work, how they interfere in the political sphere, which, we think,
Comrade himself will not deny it. Bukharin. The attitude of the Soviet authorities towards Proletkul-
tu" should be the same as it was defined, for example, to professional

‚ unions. VN

Elsewhere in the notes of Comrade. Bukharin sees something dangerous in the words that
proletarian initiative must proceed “regardless of the decreed
nia".

Yes. We do not see ourselves as people who are called to propagate
proletarian culture; we know that the EU can only be developed by the pro-
letariat through its strictly klaesovsky initiative in all areas of culture
tour and educational work. We create the best possible
current conditions and we call the proletariat to it, hoping. in the future to gather and unite
everything valuable that proletarian independence will give, so that it can be brought into action
creative life.

Independent activity of the proletariat in the field of revolutionary cultural work
bots can be secreted to the same extent as, onexample, and science, or rather
scientific work. Within these limits, we defend decree and, as people
We strictly enforce discipline and organization. But we want to
did not try to decree daily “laboratory” work, because here decrees
would hamper the creativity of the class, ‘especially at this moment, when the proletariat
shares his dictatorship with the peasantry, and they organize their own “Peasant Cult”.

A. 0.

FROM THE EDITOR.

In the “Izvestia of V.Ts.I.K.” on August 13 under the title “Proletkult”
chatana conversation art. Piskunov, the essence of whose ideas boils down to the requirement
abolish Proletkults, since their work should be carried out by Soviet departments
lamas on public education and councils on public education.

The idea is not new; and if the matter concerned only the personal views of Comrade Piscu-
new, we could only answer with a smile that comrade, head of the Moscow
skiy department of people education, also wants to manage cultural creativity
honor of the Moscow proletariat. This is unlikely to be possible for a comrade who
have not yet learned the difference between organizing the simple dissemination of Knowledge
and the organization of class cultural creativity. But the editors of Izvestia
attached to the note a statement that she shares the point of view of Comrade Piskunov,
as “the only Soviet one”. This is already a threat to our cause; and we can't help but
answer it. }

As you know, among our educators there are two different views
on proletarian culture. Some - among them the People's Commissar for Education
for example, Comrade A.V. Lunacharsky—along with us, they believe that in the field of science,
both in the field of art and in the field of everyday life, the proletariat has to create
its own culture, qualitatively different from the previous, bourgeois one. Others—

36 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 3

like Comrade M. N. Pokrovsky, they deny this, admitting, for example, a special proletarian
point of view in science only in the field of social sciences, and even then only partially,
with the exception of their entire formal side, and for the rest they recognize only the external
class culture, science and culture in generalmore

Not recognizing the cultural and creative independence of the proletariat, they
by “proletarian culture” they simply mean the dissemination of available
culture in the working environment and naturally tend to combine this matter with cultural
Tourist and educational work among peasants and the urban poor.
Obviously, this is precisely what Comrade Piskunov and the editors of Izvestia call “Soviet
point of view"

Soviet power is a state-political organization; it's like
appears on the headline of Izvestia, power emanating from the Workers' Councils, Cre-
Styansky, Soldier and Cossack Deputies. This is a very political bloc
sch class composition, and is by no means pure. dictatorship of the proletariat.
The control and leadership of the bloc are quite normal and appropriate in the affairs of the state.
gift of education for all classes of the people. But to put the matter
organizing the independent cultural creativity of the proletariat under control
and the leadership of ideological representatives of the peasantry, army, Cossacks, city-
of the philistine poor is, at the very least, a great humiliation of the cultural
the dignity of the working class, its denial. the right to cultural self-determination.

The shift of tasks of the political bloc from cultural-class ones is as follows
the basis of these requirements. We categorically reject them.

In matters of culture we are immediate socialists. We claim that
The proletariat must now, immediately, create for itself socialist
Chinese forms of thought, feeling, life, regardless of relationships and combinations
political forces. And in this creation, political allies—the peasant
and the middle-class poor cannot and should not control its work.

Abolition of Proletkults, forced introduction of groupings
in them forces in the departments of public education with subordination to persons in charge
these departments, as Comrade Piskunov demands, would lead to the aimless waste of these
forces into internal struggle, to their actual dispersion.

In the Soviet departments of the people, having collected. there are a lot of intellectuals working, joining
fallen to Soviet powerand only after her victory, and partly quite recently
after a long boycott of it. We warmly welcome, of course, this joining
cultural figures, but it is up to our class culture to entrust them with control
and the leadership - they, of course, are supporters of a non-class culture - we are by no means
we can't. »

T. Piskunov personally seems to admit the existence of special forms of pro-
letarian culture and even justifies his grabby position by the fact that
wants to extend these emerging, in his words, forms to life
the entire population. But this is clearly a diplomatic technique, or perhaps irony.
Why then would it be necessary to interfere with the autonomous creativity of these forms?
at birth to put them under the control of non-proletarian social forces?
After all, it is clear that creativity is stronger the freer it is.

Let comrades who take a non-class or inter-class point of view
cultures, work in their own, inter-class sphere, taking into account the interests and
demands of the entire population. Let them not complicate their work and ours by repeating
their, fortunately, not yet successful, attempts to destroy our organiza-
get involved

Publisher - } Editor -
Vseros. State Publishing House. Editorial board.

Second State Printing House. Trekhprudny, 9.