MONTHLY MAGAZINE.

%\
her

AB siege, :
E; Nunawin:

2
>

„„Bogdazoe.
T. Neech.
E. Men-lebn:
In Fritsch,

with bibliography. t

Polyansny.

CONTENTS Ge

In memory of K.A. Timiryazev.
® vol. rodetcult
“Essays on organic science, Art. b-th. |
5 question 96 about the scope and nature of Proletnult’s work:
Independence or in the shackles of bourgeois Zhuztura:
Methods of proletarian creativity..
England. as a field of proletarian culture:
Independent education of Avglin workers.
Alexey: Gmyrev. (work-pvoet);
To the convening of 2-08° All-Russian. Coy. Proaikuztov..
s ‘page; In the province. |
$F. Mering. No.; Marche. His story: life*, in Fritsch,
Recent European Literature." -N.. Slepnoy-

“Irosetary.”— In: Beloperkovsny. „Laughter through/after- |

“thank you.” `Tarayoev. Poems." - I; Verliikov.
“Yvety Serdiag.—N Rybatsky. “On the Bright Path.” —
In: Oteoli. y A. Kuzvepov. "Poem-

rhenium B; Tsnyavev, - “Perkaya - book of poems” »KuZ-
mine." Magazine.

gee

April - July 1920

STATE PUBLISHING HOUSE.

MOSCOW:

sovdiyademons

State
PUBLIC LIBRARY ^ _'Roletarians of all countries, unite!

rRarekaya_

t MONTHLY" MAGAZINE:
o\Body Center: Committee of the All-Russian Council of Propetkult.

Editorial address! and offices: Moscow, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 26-30.
Reception of the editorial secretary daily. from -10 a.m. to 4 p.m. _

No. 15-16. < ‘April--myulgo oo Ch9VO city,

D CONTENTS: In memory of K.A. Timiryazev. — About the international Proletkult:— Mr.
3 Essays on organizational science. Art. 5th. A, 5004061 question‘ 06'0b*emyo and ha- 1 4: vtgo
the nature of Proletkult's works. V. Kunavin. - Self-sufficiency or in shackles bur-- \ s
"Voise culture. V. Polyansky.—Methods of proletarian theory, A. Bez9a-‚
ov. —Aglia as a field of proletarian culture. (7. \Jewel.; = Independent
education: workers. Anrlii. B,; McLane.-Alexey Gmyrev, (worker poet)
V. Frie.—JK convocation of the 2nd All-Eroes. Conf. Proletkultov. The standards are represented
stva: Order of the day. Instructions: ‘Questionnaire, Chronicle of “Proletkult”: Beyond the border.
Congresses...V. provinces,-Bibliography. F. Mehring: K. Marx, The History of His Life.
P—av. Lebedev.—In: Fritsche. “New European Literature.” You, 1=vy
In G. Steinoil “Proletary”. V, Polyansky.—V. Belotserkovsky “Laughter through
tears“.V. And———Tarasov. "Poems". V. P.-I. Berdnikov. „Flowers
‘vertex’ LV; P--i-N. Fishing. "On a bright path." V. P.-ii.-N.. Oteoln.
“Poems.”—L. Kuznetsov. "Poems". V. P-ii.—V. Knyazev. First

}
>

<

and r book of poems." 9. Dir 1-E eats fr odes with ` - r)
®
In memory of K.*A; Tapiryazev.

April 28, 1920.. Vlementius died
Irnadievich Timiryazev, member of the Socialist
Honest Academy oio. employee ‚of ‹

magazine. |
On, him; coffin Central `Namity
in the All-Russian Council of the Proletnult, possibly

laid a wreath of embroidered flowers with the inscription
"To the great scientist and" collaborator "Prola-
Tara Nultura." OE: |
Comrade (I. Bogdanov over his grave from
name; Socialist Academy and. All-
Russian. Propetkulta made a speech.

Farewell greetings to a dear comrade... Much has already been said
I want to say so much, so much... and it’s just so much fun to catch.) But the main thing.
clear. A big man died. A man of science, a man of labor, a man of ideals.

A man of science... This is not the place to evaluate his work; but it’s his business
known to the whole world. He investigated and revealed one of the greatest mysteries
life: showed exactly how from dead materials of air and ‘water a plant,
by the power of the sun's rays, it builds living matter. It was a great victory
science. And the old learned world recognized ve, that ‘world,’ from ‘notororb vkineh
Klementiy Timiryazev, and from whom “he moved so far” with his soul Ono
one of those few who had the honor of reading the 'honorable' lecture
at the London Learned Society, the highest scientific institution in Europe," ^

He was not only a tireless worker in our extensive “specialty”
ity, but also a tireless ‘fighter for the scientific’ worldview.” Nikko ‘in ‹Roezni
did not do so much for the triumph of the ideas of Darwinism and scientific materialism’!
No one understood better, no one was brighter and more visibleToday we haven’t figured out the power of science and
scientific thinking, a tool for real creativity; construction" life
victory over nature. About Zee: VK

1

th
\
{

et PROLETARIAN CULTURE. |, No. 15—16

Comrades! the world of science had its left side, where its living beats
heart, and right, where the petrified past defends. webya against the future,
Timiryazev always stood on the extreme left, always occupied the most progressive
position and steadily walked forward, maintaining to the end: youthful freshness
rigidity and flexibility of thought. His article “Scharvin” is striking in this regard.
and Marx,” written a year before his death. He was only in the last period of his
life came closer to the social sciences; but no one has been able to do it deeper
understand and more clearly express the internal ‘kinship between Darwinism and historical ma-
terialism, these titanic creations of the two greatest creators of science
XX century. This article was published in the magazine “Proletarian Culture”.
Comrades, the idea of ​​proletarian culture was also close to him; this idea
repelling many even revolutionary socialists with its unusual
Additional payment. ‘Socialist! It’s not for nothing that the Academy wrote on its wreath
“To the noble representative of the union of the proletariat and science.” He took
the proletariat in its vital whole, in the entire scale of its movement—and how
cultural strength.

“Noble”... this is spruce. the first thing that comes to mind when you want
characterize his personality. The basis of his culture was an unyielding conscience
a man of thought and a citizen; ‘both constituted in it. one. Also
when he did not perform in the field of public activity, when he lived
entirely scientific interests, this conscience of a citizen was clearly reflected, and
had a strong influence on his entire fate. The old academic world, comrade
rishi, served the old order; & the old order often demanded from scientists,
from the professors of what the conscience of a true citizen could not tolerate.
In these cases, and there were quite a few of them, Klementy Timiryazev did not know concessions,
did not allow hesitation... I remember one case, not veryvery significant
but personally close to me.” 26 years ago) I was at Moscow University
The Union of Landlords, an organization, in fact, simply of mutual assistance, was destroyed
students, but according to the conditions of that time, illegal, and therefore—“revolutionary”
naya." The university board invited all professors to sign a
‘the phenomenon’ that ‘they condemn’ this organization. Only five professors refused
it happened - and among them the first was Timiryazev. Due to a little-known study
children’s ‘organization’ he risked his entire academic career... But his
conscience did not know hesitation: So he always acted. It is clear that while
In the old ‘order’, despite ‘all’ his merits, he could not achieve a ‘high academic status’.
mic career“, t

The same unshakable “conscience of the citizen determined his two striking
vivid, ‘and historically important’ performances at the end of his life; performance
against ‘war at a time when there are still’ the majority of even socialists who are enthusiastic
ny wave; wandered' in the bloody fog of patriotism; and speaking for
‘full acceptance, full recognition of the October Revolution—at a time when
even. part of those who remained faithful to international socialism until then
hesitated and walked away from work in the field of the Soviet Republic. Both phase
he had to break many previous connections, sacrifice mass
former ones. sympathies... But his conscience knew no hesitation. _

The Socialist Academy can rightfully be proud of not
only because she elected Klementy Timiryazev one of the first in her
members, but also because he himself openly emphasized this title.
He was infinitely indifferent to any titles; but this title was
important for him because it. expressed his attitude towards socialist
some science. - I'm E-th

Strange thing, comrades! The loss is enormous, irreparable; but, look
immersed in this wonderful image of a scientist and citizen, taking in the hy-
Gantian completed. work—somehow you can’t stop with the feeling
sadness As if something, the main thing, has not died... Yes, that’s how it is! After all, this
OS imageis dancing. V. history, it will be etched in the memory of generations; this is a matter about
must and will continue.
No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 3

Sleep well, true teacher! Sleep, knight without fear and Thy
‘to the end pure, to the end bright; to the end ‘true to yourself and your ideal!
pi, lucky one, ‘one of the few, nomu’ was given an immortal soul in life
humanity! for your soul was your work; a' 'it lives above
powerless.

The word ''victory, comrades, only ter il yy am as pro-
a crazy word over the grave of Klementy Timiryazev.

7

0 (‘international Proletkulte.

Cultural proletarian movement, ‘organizing’ in Proletkults,
presupposes a special, independent form of the ‘labor movement, along with’
political and professional cooperative forms. 'This> side
proletarian struggle and proletarian creativity’ until now. lagged behind
others in development; it has not yet had time to form into an ‘international: organiza-
nization, But it is certain that ‘she will soon reach this stage: life ‘quickly
goes in this direction. And yet on a somewhat wide scale
Proletkults were created only by Soviet Russia, where they are united throughout Russia:
Siysk center. In other countries: they don’t have piano and they don’t play
separately.

This is the relationship: between a culturally diverse country and countries
culturally advanced may seem mysterious; Part of the solution - = but
Not all of it lies, of course; in favorable conditions. Soviet
building. Apart from this, however, there remains the fictitious fact that it is still pre-Soviet, and
even pre-revolutionary ‘time specifically among the Russians’. workers' movement
for the first time the independent ‘significance of the proletarian cultural
struggle and’work, the need for RA riteroak. ‘You are her. Why-
mu it’s like this ‘happened?

) An analogy can serve as an explanation: from this area, Since the seventies
years of the last century, the German proletariat ‘in’ the political. walking
ahead of English though. economic ‘development of Germany, c. those times
far behind the English level; how’ otetavalo‘i ekonomic movement
life of German workers. In politics: theirs. high progression of visas
villages ‘just because of the political backwardness of Germany; with ‘her semi-noble;
semi-bourgeois state system, ‘just from the heavy one; comparatively
with England, the oppression that the proletariat experienced from this side; and which
intensely stimulated his activity; 'his' consciousness; To the Russian proletariat;
in addition to the ‘impossible’ state ‘form which: from the very ‘beginning made
its quite revolutionary, exceptional. a heavy 'pressure lay on the 'kulv' =
the tourist backwardness of Roesia is his own; ‘and ‘other’ classes. Nalg perez
The successful, consciously fighting proletariat lost the most important battles
and lost most of the fruits of our first revolution, thanks to `kulz
tourney weakness of the less developed broad proletarian strata, and its
natural allies of the rural and urban poor? This ‘exciting
lost and his cultural consciousness “sharpened”; stronger than the peripheries of R.
nah, where such incentives were much more weak.

That's why we `everything before' were made `decisive. conclusions
regarding the meaning ‘and tasks’ of the proletarian cultural movement. ‘And the new one
the revolution showed even more clearly its vital necessity for the “working people”
what' class. Our proletariat had to ‘save Russia’ from economic
political and ‘political destruction, we had to’ take on the role of organizers
social life ‘under such conditions when the ‘;cultural’ classes of bourgeois
juisie ‘with the bourgeois intelligentsia, in fact showed their complete failure:
suitability ‘for this ropi. The overwhelming ‘burden of new tasks’ again and. again.
4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 1516

harsh experience convinces our workers that... cultural. podtovka
k%sa=—9 TO. Is FOT o @goorzanizerehaya preparation. It's painful to feel. on
practice ee. drawback: the more oracular and energetic they become
the path of organized revolutionary-cultural work.

A new ‘culture’ was created and is being created spontaneously in the broad proletariat.
sktheir masses. Its elements arise in the area of ​​everyday life. wherever there are warehouses
friendly relations between people are created, from the offer of production
moving into family life and into any other communication; in the region. feelings and
thinking wherever the personal “I” is pushed aside and replaced in people’s minds
collective “we”, and where the world is not perceived as a field of individual
struggle for profit "&| how to support! common} labor! for the destruction of the elements. Pro-
The letcult movement brings organization to this creativity, =”
consciousness and: planfulness. There is no doubt that; the amount of new elements
ments of culture have already been born and entered. in, life, a lot. meaning
more precisely, among the advanced.working.class! countries than us; naliye. temporary
the advantage ‘lies, ah neeee initiative, - like we evleri,
forced move. things.

Ha educational work: which was carried out. ‘formerly socialist
parties, trade unions: unions, cooperatives,. Kulturtraeger
in circles, no, I could do it myself. by, yourself. organize elements of proletarian culture
tours; because the closest ones." ‘in a manner. put it." to yourself; others; tasks, . She,
sought to introduce the working masses to “spiritual culture in general,” dis-
looking at it (© point of view: class, struggle and class creativity
lash:: there. and insofar as where. straight. and..obviously affected
proletarian: interests... A’culture;universal”, developed.
other classes, was in fact their culture, satisfied, their
needs, served’ for ‘organizing life in accordance with: their social
kind. The introduction of the proletariat to it was an introduction to everyday life, thinking,
building feelings. these old Klaes - and.since ‹it.was.divided. don't criticize
chesically, without overestimating and adapting to needs and tasks. span-
riata, to the extent that it even: consolidated his life in the forms of the past, culture
tourno subordinated him to the dominant ones. Claesam..

First: a conscious ‘organizer of elements. new. culture should
read Karl Marx. He, the hallrevived the foundation. flyer. science, economics
skoy and historical, a. equally: and proletarian philosophy; this.was the beginning
revolution. in general. cultural area. The essence of the revolution was
not at all because the new science defended the interests of the proletariat: the defense
interests. In general, ‘nope, maybe. relate only to her. applications.
Coup. by: deeper, ‘related, to‚ the very, methods. scientific and philosophical.
thinking: it was leaving. old ‹goki: vision, individualistic. and
usually. mixed. k. her-in” to various ‘authoritarian degrees, became
to the other one, which we. we call it collective labor, and which” exactly., corresponding
welcomes proolrotiviai filed, robot class, that is, is
proletarian: they

›Social ‘being: the consciousness of people is determined.’ V. ‚this generalizes
general formula, Marx’s “under social being.” terms and conditions are implied
relations of production, and in: the concept: “consciousness” is included entirely. spiritual
culture. From here it is easy to deduce a fundamental solution to the question of pro-
letarian cultural movement. ‘Social existence, the proletariat, its role
in production: and: the nature of his labor connections isolates him. from. rospod-
existing classes and opposes them in a revolutionary position. This
must ‘correspond’ to his entire consciousness, ‘Te. the same way. revolutionary
he must appear as a class in all areas of culture. To. recent
me his’activity. and, especially, the design efforts were concentrated
on the political and ‘economic struggle. Because here. producing
fox'. new organizational... forms. And. new methods, insofar as it is
was also cultural creativity. r now it's time to put
Ha

3 15-16 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. 5

the task in all its breadth. What Marx began in some areas of thought,
“must not only be continued, but extended to all other areas;
proletarian 'science must be followed by proletarian 'art,'
the sown but bright germs of which are already in abundance; new
forms of life,which spontaneously occur in the labor and struggle of the working class,
must be recognized and unfolded and cover his entire life, before
how they will cover the life of all humanity. And, most importantly, every ‘purchase
work in these directions must immediately be made available to broad workers
sneeze of the Masses, the world proletariat in its cause. This is the meaning of our movement
niya, this is his program. in t a :
As far as organizations are concerned, they inevitably adapt to the general
social conditions, which differ from country to country. We have a Prolet-
cults are part of the system of state institutions and’ live from
state budget; in most other countries “they! for now” can
to be only tolerated by the state, and in some places, during exacerbations, imieri:
alistic military dictatorship, ‘will likely be subject to constraint’
and even persecution. Due to such differences, the provisions change
and scope of activities. Its volume, in the sense of fundamental capture, should
for Western Proletkults will be wider than for ours. In, Soviet
The Russian People's Commissariat for Education performs a number of functions,
related and UZAAGUEZ VNZ VCHUTU A MAINTAINED LRW O=s=. there is a general
educational ‘part of the work, in which they’ coincided with the ‘needs
other labor 'klaovs; lies in the State Commissariat) and is thereby removed
from Proletkultov; These are the initial educational courses, library
business, the largest share of basic scientific-socialist propaganda. Pro-
non-state letcults, of course, have to lead. and this work;
and in its further development. they "should" c. interests of its unity and
harmony, strive for it, concentration. in your hands, freeing you from it
professional, cooperative organizations, etc. party, because. ovi.
now she is being led. Only. that is the essence of cultural and educational affairs, which
is directly related to the special tasks of these organizations, naturally,
Dolin ROSAVATIO I NEVE INO VANO VBBICHO Sao vre
party propaganda stakes, etc. But, here too. Kelatel are constant
practical contact. ideological coordination, which, however...always
“must exist between organizations of all forms of the labor movement.
The main core of the work of the Proletkults is the same everywhere; revolution
Revolutionary-cultural creativity, collecting the emerging elements of a new
culture, in the field of everyday life, science, art, design, development, system.
tization of these elements, in a word, their comprehensive organization. Her tools
workers' clubs should serve. with educational and artistic
Bruzhrami pri, Russian Federation spodaalye zktuschi oto Yat o IVA, bu VYu
letarian universities of the academy, art, perhaps not, separately from
them, but merged with them... All such institutions should be grouped into
Prolekults, local and central, together with literary departments,
publishing, administrative and economic, and others [what are the
fights, around the general governing boards. ‚ r r

The structure of the main, pnitiatic and orchid Vanaraa, once:
can, cannot, be monotonous, with a huge variety of conditions,
in the „ohest charts. pre-populated by nature
Proletkul movement. Revolutionary-creative in the sense of class
culture is par excellence, the industrial proletariat, the concentrated
trivial, in large enterprises, because it contains class features. howl-
are emphasized most sharply and definitely, especially the collectivism of labor, and
struggle. . Therefore, the natural primary cell of the organization is
read. Factory Proletkult or factory: association of cultural-
active workers of a separate large enterprise; in the enterprise. ant
A rather large part of it can also be the base. These primary

3'

»›
6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 5 No. 15—16

The cells are autonomous, each in their own area of work. Connecting by city
districts, cities, regions, they jointly form their local
committees, and at general congresses - the central one. General organizational
the principle of centralization of communications with maximum local autonomy in non-
mediocreno work. For cultural creativity, initiative and freedom—
basic conditions.
in the revolutionary atmosphere of the era, the growth of organizations must

fast and possible. foresee that in the near future the question of
International Congress of Proletkults. Until then we must do our best
efforts to develop ideological and practical connections between the movement and
national scale. through the exchange of literature, systematic information,
sending delegates, and by all means possible.

The cultural revolution is a necessary part and a necessary condition
proletarian socialism. In the field of culture as well as in the economic
and political, liberation. the workers should be the work of the workers themselves. .

Essays on organizational science.
Divergence and convergence of forms’).

T. Law of divergence.

In experience, no two absolutely similar complexes are ever encountered.
The differences can be practically negligible - “infinitesimal”, but at
with sufficient research they could always be discovered. You can't
It’s impossible to even find two completely similar leaves on all the plants in the world.
as the 'molecular-kinetic' theory shows, find two
There are quite a few drops of water in all the lakes of the world. 'This applies not only

“real” complexes, but also to “ideal”, only imaginable ones. Geometers
and to conceive “absolutely similar _ ‘thenias, i.e. verbally designate them,
as such, but these lines exist only in acts of thinking, &
two acts of thinking, at least by the same person at different moments,
themselves cannot be absolutely identical:

The most similar, practically identical forms are obtained by
separation, disintegration of homogeneous ones. ‘complexes; of course this homogeneity.
only relative. ‘Crystal, drop of distilled water, piece
chemically pure metals can serve as examples of such complexes.
Let us divide such a unit into two, possibly equal parts; vi-
which technique will not allow us to achieve complete equality, zero difference
quantities Consequently, in the ''building,. due to primaryheterogeneity,
no matter how insignificant it may be, and in size between the twin complexes
it will turn out to be a mess! some initial difference.

This is not enough. Their environment and their external relations are inevitably different.
Even if it is “perfect emptiness,” i.e. ‘astronomical ethereal
environment, but also in it, erupted. countless and infinitely diverse
ny waves of radiant energy, electrical and magnetic states
at any two points they cannot be identically equal. What if this...
the environment is complex, “material”, i.e. molecular; then ‘here are the differences
incomparably more significant and 'more diverse. - One way or another, they' are always
available. |

What's next? the fate of our twin forms? How's everything going?
kind, they will obviously ‘change. Is it possible to expect completely the same
d O

+) This is the fifth article in a series of “Essays”.
No. 15—16 'PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 7

new, exactly parallel changes? It's clear that 'no. They must: be. times-
`personal and due to’ the original difference of the complexes themselves, because
‘unequal ‘forms’ and ‘in’ equal conditions change unequally,—and
due to differences in the environment, the influences of which cause changes.

Dissimilarities are added to the initial differences. changes.
The differences are growing. And ‘depending on’ this, further’ changes
should turn out to be even more dissimilar, and the growth of new differences will
will intensify, etc. ‘Consequently, the divergence of the original forms ‘is going on’;
figuratively”, in the same way” as “quantities grow in geometric ones! progressions,—
in general “according to the type of progressively ascending series. 1

''The thing is 'about a cough of water', 'divided into two, 'not 'exactly' equal
among themselves." Then, ‘according to’ the laws’ of physics, in the same ‘atmosphere’, one of
the two which will evaporate more is relative. slower; the one who
less—relatively ‘faster’. How is this the simplest difference; quantitative
both, and others, more complex, - in this case; e.g.’ concentrations
dissolved substances present even in the purest distilled water
water; heethe chemical interactions of these substances, etc., become the initial
points of development of new, further” differences; and ‘since the most
Negation puts them in different ‘environmental conditions’, ‘it gives rise to another
divergence factor.-—Two questions arise. The first one is: no. was there

“a similar progression of differences” and until the separation of the drop; after all' 'both' her
parts, being ‘together, if we separate them from one another only mentally
Naturally, they still differed from each other in the same ‘relations, and even: environment
theirs was not the same, because it is not the same from different sides
drops at different points. The second‘is this: if the differences grow depending
from two ‘factors, then can’t both of these factors develop’ them in opposition?
true meanings, so that the discrepancies will not ‘work out’, or even ‘result’
will there be something ‘the opposite? Noah

The first 'question' is solved in the following way. The drop is one
complex ‘exactly’ insofar as ‘more’ of its parts are in continuous
‘connection’ and ‘interaction,’ in ‘constant ‘jaw’use, in’ exchange fusion
activities. Exactly’ completely. and 'and 'passes, 'obviously, alignment
‘developing differences between ‘parts of the complex. E.g., concentration
dissolved substances changes' in different 'places of a drop of water, - but! right there

`and ‘mixing’ and diffusion occurs, ‘which strive’ to destroy

this heterogeneity. There is no such ‘conjugation’ between individual ‘caps’, and
differences “can ‘increase without hindrance,’ ‘divergence—intensify 1).
And as for tectology, complete, ‘absolute’ separateness does not exist-
exists, it can be said: since “individuality” exists or develops,
insofar as the action of the law of divergences manifests itself or progresses

o The second question should be answered this way: between individual ‘complexes
in reality, not only pure divergence is possible, but also convergence:
the influence of the environment ‘may turn out to be’ opposite to the actual difference
‘complexes, and ‘enlarge’ them similarly. ‘Ancestors of the dolphin; those who lived on land,
excellentThe shape of the body differed from the fish of that time, more than from the dolphin
current fish, etc. But ‘each case is determined by ‘special
conditions that partially paralyze or mask the ‘tendency’ of consumption
waiting, ‘which;’ however!" veekda’‘continues’ to remain/ Between! ‘them. same
dolphin and, let’s say, a shark having diverged’ not’ stop catching ‘m not’ stop-
is expressed in other respects not related to mechanical properties
water ‘@red. “Therefore, there is no” violation of the “general” law,” &

1) Of course, the ease of conjugation itself is of great importance here, no.
mobility of the elements of the complex, its internal plasticity: E.g. hardtnusk
glands, electrical and magnetic activities conjugate and align “very
very quickly, the heat is already much higher. slower, and chemical ones are comparatively very slow,
so that one part of it may completely rust, while the other part remains un-
touched. The small mobility of the energies is tantamount to their significant separation
8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-416

connection to his. tendencies of still others, “counteracting”. her. apparently
manifestation. Law. gravity, .vapr.uone is violated by the fact that; With. by force. "bro-
the treasured object flies upward, or that the balloon: rises, but not
falls; any ‘natural’ tendency can. paralyzed about others, “Who-
Some are exactly the same: natural; ›and‚.in” yours. turn, subject to study.
Infinitely complex. concreteness of living experience "not even a single trend
not r ey. completely ‘isolated’, ›absolutely pure. form. ..

Next; accustomed. ‘ways of thinking give birth. yet. this question:
You can talk in general. ©'"divergence". complexes without. ; Togo. "completely"
chenno. different? Foxes can grow, such as, for example.” differences, what
available; ‘let’s put .between. two. chemical elements? "I. ‚if. | atoms
hydrogen and oxygen combined in. particle of water will be separated by force
galvanic": current, › will it lead? “divergence” but. propertyto you,
to increase the difference between them - will it remain the same?
the feast of the two elements, what was the pre-Etovo? from factory

But: we must keep in mind that all sorts of separations... complexes. experience. ‘renew-
telny> and: limited, (so, their increase. is never. excluded. This
It’s easy to see in the same example: hydrogen atoms, etc. koi koi
‘water analysis if we take a closer look at their relationships.

‹(from the physical connection of atoms. There is, of course, ingression, and. like any
ingression, presupposes the presence of a copula, “i.e. some... common elements
‘between these atoms, which ones exactly. It is not yet completely clear. theory
yultroeniya, matter; it is accepted that “the matter is ... about electrical “actively”
networks; expressed by › “lines of force” connecting opposite
electrons. One way or another, if there is a connection. is torn, it must. mean
that its component activities are paralyzed. in any RoieKAH pruraio-
which “were delivered by a water-decomposing current...

The isolated atoms are immediately then grouped again. in pairs, ‘but
already hydrogen with hydrogen, oxygen with oxygen, making up a mixture of gases,
‘bearing these names: `Broken ties are closed like this. quickly, what's about
‘intermediate state’ directly “observe. impossible; it shows up
good. ‘indirectly; ov increased. „vile. srodetva&, te. chemical
mobility of bodies o zvaya lazsev@! (“at the moment of birth”). However, for. this is
elusive time occurs significant. process of divergence of properties, _

‹Link of hydrogen atoms and. oxygen in the particle. water, .was determined,
of course, certain of them. structural. compliance; no matter what
stood Time! This connection disappears, it goes away. conclude that it has disappeared, , Change
thinking is like that; what kind of screw would it be? and nuts. the matching ones disappeared
‘slicings; their elements of commonality; The comparison is rough, but true. expressing
essence of 'fact. (The general electric state for a water molecule is replaced
appears to be two sharply different for new ones. molecules. hydrogenAnd. oxygen,
“The varnish and the speed of “thermal” movement: water. the particle possessed. one.
‹in general. therefore, for both atoms (the average at -0° Ca is about
615: meters in eekundu)y after the gap ‘for’ hydrogen particles and. oxygen
The speed is different (at the same temperature, the first one is about 1840 meters,
the second—460. m.). The amount of differences has obviously increased, and further development
knowledge, it is possible to foresee with certainty that more will be discovered here. others
‘changes. separated atoms, and therefore. and, even more,
walking The same can be said and 0 you them, oo. in, nature,
in equal to? harm. |
-ions B: inventive life, the law of divergence spawns `important, vapravala-
role. He teaches behind all diversity to look for that comparative
uniformity, from which. it came from, from the complex to ascend to, more
Chrestai more; “primitive” - spruce, expressing both volume and non-

complexity at the same time:

“But the direct practical significance of the law is also great. times of unity
any complex, material or immaterial, upon rupture. all-
No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 69

of which connections should: be taken into account in advance, the further inevitable divergence
“separated parts: “For example, in -nolytic. cultural, life, our
era full of contradictions. organizations. would probably be less
frequent, if leaders always clearly understood that in “partial and temporary
real ‘unity: neobuodama ‚burrowing and odeviia ko ‚everything, ‚deeper
komuti + tt tnonauonlokhaeno nod vo a
x ‚ Donol 6 vbothiomenia.
Full Rava of Communications; absolute, separate, complexes, no, no
coins to be in our coins, which are all united by world aggression.
But the degrees of separation are very different, “To solve the problem in, alone
snuchayah ‘it’s enough to take. in. attention vlitenret, v. others
it is necessary to take into account the schemes" and the connection, NOT

So if the matter is going on with reproduction: some kind of amoeba, or... bacteria,
then ‘daughter cells that diverge into different ones. sides. may `rasmathree-
to be studied in the near future as completely separate organisms. Odvako,
"if" concerns the fate not only of this or that cell, but of the entire species,
then we must take into account the ich-species connection, which is clearly revealed
poble! a number of generations in a peculiar marriage. between cells - in copulations
or 'conjugations.-A: 'reproduction: germinal. complex cells, e.g.
human body. from 'from the very beginning | has to. examine both
points of opinion Here the cell-daughters are not removed... alone. from. another, . oh, right

remain connected and in communication, although they become exhausted. together... Between. them
a constant chemical 'conjugation' is maintained at the beginning. directly, and
then, when there are a lot of them, it will cut through the media. lymph and blood—
general internal environment of the body. Naturally; what..and.law. discrepancies
limited to ›c. its action in relation to the chemical. composition
cells and tissues formed by them: ! at. all of its differences are significant
community of chemical structure. remains; she is the carrier. indie
individuality and heredity‹ 1 l: .

When in decision! tectological sword data. include simultaneously
exactly and ‘separately’ and ‘connection. complexov” i.e. when. required, explore
changes in a system consisting of individual parts, this: can be designated as
task “She’ systemic divergence” (y;siothematic: . differentiation”), -7Two, ‚its
side" we have already considered: the principles of relatives. resistances,
law of the least. gave it to us. answer ana and question-..0b conditions of preservation
or ‘destruction of such systems. "Now let's go further, and predict...that
the system does not ‘destroy’; we're investigating the horror, wow. direction. she, great"
change, develop under various influences. environment *). Idk.

We already know about UN “preservation” systems: we know two. important. things:. first of all it
is never absolute; and always only approximate; secondly it
is the ‘result of the moving equilibrium’ of the system: it is balanced, i.e. is formed
two ‘Streams’ of activitiesassimilation, absorption. And. conquest
becomes active from the outside; and’ disassimilation; dis’assimilation, activities,, them. sweat-
ray, ‘transition’ to the outside. I'm coming. A: this: means. two. a number of things can be fixed
and parallel processes of progressive > selection; positive and negative
tative.: Ovi morut quantitatively ‘balance, with codebaniations, c. that
or’ the other’ side; ‘but ‘everyone; as we saw before, by itself. nature
fulfills his own. special tectological! role; . has -oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo deal?
structure’ of the system: Both - together they regulate” it. development. 3. with |
`In what direction do they regulate: development? Obviously, c. „a hundred years
the most stable: ‘relations, because ‘less stable: negative
the selection should ‘rewind, and more
vym a pena I oNAEOKH: V n I zoo

1) Cases of destruction will have to be studied. general! take it off!. Scherii. Ozhelekh:

new *rises. . :}

10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 15-416

At the same time, this development, we must remember, ‘goes’ the way. discrepancies,
since the parts of the whole have separateness;: It turns out, thus,
an increase in differences leading to a more stable structural (corresponding
shiyam. Let's imagine this concretely.

Here is the embryo of a plant. But as its cells multiply,
they find themselves in an increasingly dissimilar environment: some go deeper into the soil,
others rise into the atmosphere; initially the same, they are inevitably
change in the sense of increasing divergence. Its main line defines
is divided by the fact that the predominant materials for assimilation are not the same:
in the soil, mainly water, salts; ‘in the atmosphere – carbon dioxide, ‘oxygen,
radiant energy of the sun. Those and other materials, however, are included.c. structure
all cells, i.e. all parts of the system are ‘assimilated’ and ‘disassimilated’
are fighting. In what direction should selection regulate: development?
What ratios of diverging aoes are most stable? Such
‘in which these parts’ mutually complete each other; this flooroh quite possible
It’s possible thanks to’. preserving 'their 'connection,' which is maintained
general internal environment, ‘movement and’ exchange of juices. plants. Cells
‘roots are absorbed in excess’ from. of its immediate environment are only elements,
leaf and stem cells—others; They transmit by conjugation. friend
each other their surpluses, mutually maintaining their ‘structural stability.
These are additional relationships: Such differences develop that,
embroider. coherence and 'stability' of the system, 'its strength under external influences
actions, in a word, its organization.

The example taken relates to the most typical group of cases. „times;
division of functions" or specialization. In the area of ​​‘life they. ‘countless and
infinitely ‘varied’; Here’s another illustration: “primary; so-called "physiological
“gical” division of labor at the dawn of human development - between men -
us and the women in the clan ‘group. Female ‘organism as necessary
from the very beginning ‘less’ mobile; than male: pregnancy, feeding,
caring for a baby largely binds a woman: to a place,
condition for her life ‘in’ a more limited environment than ‘the one in which
a man moves. Thanks to ''this; 'in 'procuring subsistence means, --&
it’ is the social. form of ‘assimilation—more accessible to women
plant objects - roots; silt grain; men can, incomparably
freer to hunt for animals: At the same time; staying longer
in one place, women have the opportunity to process extracted materials
more complete processing; facilitating decent assimilation. consumption.
Accordingly, the systemic divergence proceeded. like this. Thus, then
The male and female parts of the ‘community’ increasingly complemented each other. produced
Vodetve: men, like hunters, hunted animals. food skin, wool,
`& later created a ‘cattle breeding’; women delivered. a large share
vegetable food material; 'And. with the passage of time they put it. beginning
agriculture; in addition, women are predominantly. preparedyali that and other
I'm grazing. for consumption; ‘they made clothes from leather’ Yosshereti, it: UN

Additional ones are deployed much further and deeper. ratios
in the new division of labor. Yes, the production system here is organized like this,
that each member of society performs only an immeasurable, small share of those
environmental transformations that are necessary. ''directly for saving
his personal life; everything else! conjugatively: given to him by his social
environment; but it is assimilated by it; as if irritating them, distributing themselves. V. her,
almost the entire’ sum of the results of his personal labor: what share is not
for example, this or that worker is from that. he: did he make it for you?

In the human body, ‘providing. colony of 50-100 adj:
lions of cells, even mentally it is almost impossible to single out the share
each cell in the common struggle for life with external nature: for each
cells individually assimilation occurs. for. account of the internal con’yuga-
tional environment of the body (blood and lymph), with the exception of part; which

„
No. 15-16TH ROLETRA CULTURE. And

practically should be considered infinitesimal. This is the result of a systemic
divergence, the beginning of which is the uniform division of one cell -

In the development of the psyche, a similar line appears no less clearly. Chain
predictions, feelings, volitional impulses related to hostility
ny forces of the environment, and the chain related to its friendly forces, as if dividing
control the movements of the body among themselves: one “assimilates” from.
`` mental reactions are what is not suitable for another, and vice versa; each
actively acts in appropriate cases, complementing the other in the matter of sub-
holding the whole as its special organ. Each of them in turn
composed of smaller specialized mental organs—"associations"
tions,” those of even smaller, individual mental reactions; everywhere
separation of functions.

Additional relations are even more clear in systems such as
any of the modern languages, any science, law, morality, - in general, any
complex cropsnaya form. “Parts of speech” functionally complement each other
‘friend; as well as various departments of science, law, etc.

The entire area of life on earth can be considered, as a whole, as
one divergence system. It branches into two plant kingdoms
and animal; There are many additional relationships between them.
nia. Among them, one of the most important and remarkable is the cycle
carbon dioxide. In animal organisms it is `garbage, for plants it is
nykh one of the main means of nutrition; and the oxygen released from it
green, chlorophyll parts of plants, serves as a material for animals
rial of breathing, as, indeed, for the plants themselves; additional ha-
The nature of communication here is generally not perfect. "But since he exists, since
the processes of assimilation and disassimilation in both kingdoms are mutually contradictory
are true, to the extent that the stability of both parts of the system is enormous. least
increases 1).{

But the same carbon dioxide cycle forms the basis of additional
the relationship between life as a whole—the “biosphere”—and the gaseous envelope
which Earth's "atmosphere". The amount of carbon dioxide is retained around ‘definition’
divided, constant level. If, thanks to the development of animal life,
& also forest non-carbon dioxide in volcanic processes
and from other sources, there is an overproduction of carbon dioxide, then
for a long time at her expense. in Azhiak o I the growth of plants, and its excess is absorbed; if,
‘on the contrary, plants, by multiplying excessively, more significantly reduce
carbon dioxide content in the air, then animals into their own. queue, taking advantage
with an excess of their main plant food, they multiply intensively, and together
thereby increasing the mass of carbon dioxide released. So the stability of the composition,
atmosphere is maintained. biosphere, drawing from it materials for
assimilation.

This illustradition is interesting because it ‘reveals the possibility of additional
physical relationships not only among life forms, where we are accustomed to them
walk and observe. “Division of functions”, “division of labor”; "specialists"
tion" concepts everything biologistical and social; they easily inspire ideas,
that the very principle of additional relations is applicable ONLY to “living”
nature, but not to the “dead”, “inorganic”. But such a thought is very wrong.
'Tectological foundations of additional relationships - assimilation ku 'd6Zas-
simulation, selection processes are the same. characteristic of everything “living” and “non-
living”, so this organizational tendency should equally reveal
to appear here and there when there is a systemic discrepancy. Careful research.
‚ confirms this:

*) Some unicellular algae live in “symbiosis” with ‘unicellular’ species
by water; tan, ‘green’ zoochlorella” in the ‘suvoika body; chlorophyll elements of zoochlorella
decompose the carbon dioxide of the suvoika; and highlight: from. her. ‘carbon’ for: education
oaklovodov, needed by zoochtorella, then. each oxygen released. again serves for
the breath of the bitch. The same form of additional connection, but what a difference in scale! ‘
12 PROLETARSKAYA JSC: No. 15—16

Such, for example, is the connection between the same atmosphere and the “hydrosphere” - the water part
shell of the Earth. “There is a whole series of connections between THEM:
water-steam cycle, dissolution of air gases in. water, heat exchange,
electric, etc. Both sides regulate each other here, mutually
maintaining its stability, Thus, the atmosphere, through rain, snow, frost
ct.d,, loses its gaseous water; the hydrosphere receives it in the form of streams,
rivers flowing into the seas and oceans; but she in turn returns.
hey about the same amount of water through evaporation. Temperature
The stability of the system is maintained by the fact that continuous air 0bo-
the kidney retains the heat of the hydrosphere, as well as the “lithosphere”, the solid part
the earth's crust, delivered almost entirely by the rays of the Sun; and the hydrosphere,
possessing enormous heat capacity, forms a kind of reservoir, then. absorbed
releasing excess thermal energy, when heating intensifies, it gives off
transfer these excesses to the air, and through it to the lithosphere, when heating decreases
apprehensive; so aboutThus, temperature fluctuations are kept within, limited
within certain limits around one main level:

It should be noted that the heat-retaining function of the atmosphere, in its
turn, is regulated by the exchange of water with the oceans and seas, and partly

also carbon dioxide ‘with the biosphere. The fact is that the main components
air-oxygen and 2301 - have very low sodding ability -
ity, and Water vapor, of which there is relatively very little in the air, is not
what tenths of a percent, and carbon dioxide, which is even less, exceed
them in. this relationship is 16,000. once. Thus, regulation of their number
quality of conjugational connections between. three regions have the main
viie, thanks to which a stable, on average, temperature is maintained
their level: typical additional ratio,

Here, therefore, this relationship clearly appears - between the organi-
inorganic and inorganic complexes, as well as between some inorganic
<kimi. And it was the result of the development of divergence in the system. There was a time
when the atmosphere contained the entire external hydrosphere, in the form of water
steam: temperature of the earth's crust. measured in hundreds of degrees, 1 and water. 3e 'could
be, droplet-liquid, With a decrease in tomerahura, “water” and. “air” is separated
given; and then “life” separated from them, because, according to its basic
stavu is a combination of the same chemical elements that form the atmosphere
sphere and oceans; oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon, with the addition of not yet
which, available, in the form of. solution compounds, also in marine
water. For hundreds of millions of years, in a series of countless selection processes,
additional ones curled up. relationships between those who are divided, but also preserve-
connecting giant groups of elements of the earth's shell. —

Inorganic nature, which is generally characterized, in comparison
< organic world, greater simplicity of organizational forms, naturally,
also gives the simplest examples of additional relations. Here
one of them;

There is a supersaturated ‘solution’p some salt; in it. it's screaming
b Stallization. This is the process of breaking the previous connection, the process of separating two
parts of this system, and at the same time their divergences. It leads to a new
<connections of both parts: no solution. oversaturated, but only saturated, and
in contact with it - the smallest number of crystals with the smallest
superiority, When this state is achieved, then between both. "phases" of si-
system, liquid and solid, a stable exchange ratio is obtained,
solute cycle. The crystals are continuously losing, “disintegrating”
“simulate” particles that are dissolved and thus “simulated”
liquid; and vice versa, the liquid loses particles that settle on the crystal
lah, assimilated, therefore, by them; the two streams of change are balanced,
and the shape of everything. systems. is preserved,—Moreover, under certain conditions it
restored after its disruption by external influences. Suppose
for example, that a piece is mechanically broken off from a crystal, “When the surface” is

\
\

No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 13

significantly, the interaction of both phases increases, and it intensifies, work
gradually. eats up the broken piece, and in return deposits particles on
crystal, so that “the wound is healed.” Both sides seem to jointly regulate
shape the shape of their contact surface.

This example, in its simplicity, is convenient for formulating
‚the very essence, additional, relationship. It comes down to the exchange connection:
in it, the stability of the whole, the system, is increased by the fact that one part. “Usvai-
that which is disassimilated by the other, and vice versa. This formulation can be
generalize to all and any additional correlations, only in some cases
In some teas, its applicability is obvious; in others, more complex, it is revealed
only scientific analysis. Thus, in the life of society, in its division of labor,
exchange. products. is an expression of the exchange of labor. activities. Farmer
spends, i.e., dissimulates its own labor energy on the production of bread;
society “assimilates” this. the mostenergy. through. consumption. bread: then
At the same time, other working elements of society are “disassimilated.” others
types of working energy, producing other products; & farmer, assimilates
those types of energy by consuming their products received in ‘exchange for their bread.
In the body. The picture is even more complicated, and even more difficult to specifically highlight, then,
what this or that cell assimilates from the whole through the mechanism of its distribution
(circulation of blood and lymph, nerve impulses, etc.), and that it › „disabling
miliates" c. its benefit, next to those elements of it that it gives
only. for that,. so that they are deleted as no longer needed. organ-
low. But the meaning of relations 1 is the same,—_Inorganic nature represents
a lot of cases incomparably ‘more. simple exchange connections. In part, they are
apparently escape attention precisely because they are too simple and
habitual, do not arouse interest in the study; partly due to the fact that
chtr.have not been studied from our point of view.

Additional connections, like all organizational relationships in general,
are never completely perfect, the exchange of activities does not reach
until the end. So, for example, in the division of labor the farmer himself partly consumes
its products, and not just gives them back to the community; likewise the pain-
majority. other manufacturers, to varying degrees; in addition, on the row ©
exchange ties often reveal struggle, mutual contradiction
parts - the same. members. society, or individual tissues, individual cells
body; at the same time, part of the activities given by some of them to others,
serves “not at all for assimilation, & on the contrary, for weakening, destruction
these latter, i.e. produces in them a loss, disassimilation, of activities.
But, precisely in the inorganic world, it is possible. meet, apparently, the extreme
development of exchange ties. These are cases like this. called “polarity”, electrical
chesical, magnetic, where. opposite flows. activities, especially
support each other& in certain equilibriums. =,

usually such casesat all. are not considered' with pour. points,
vision. For example, the connection between the magnetic poles, “north” and “south”, is not understood
toils in the sense that one of. them “assimilates” activities, “disassembles”
"militated" to others, and vice versa. However, the same idea is expressed, only covertly,
in the usual formulas, according to which one pole “absorbs” the lines of force,
outgoing. "From the other pole. "Power lines" forming "power
“flows”,..this, of course, is a designation of some “activities”, not closer defined.
declared, but parunized in quite clear actions; and, therefore,
“origin” in essence. there is some kind of disassimilation, e-absorption
nie" - some kind of assimilation. In a galvanic current this is quite obvious:
the negative pole absorbs the energy coming from the negative, and
back; .they. and. exist, . bye, . continues, this one. circulation, also
this voshobottiya todyur Pomimvet I snaIAvkova, „ booronaa I L Olatanoinonono
"positive" nucleus and negative "electrons" or corpuscles
than both parties are in continuous interaction; it's almost you
is balanced in boaninine elements, in those whose atoms are “strong”, and
44 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

markedly unbalanced in radioactive substances. And “interaction” in general
cannot be imagined otherwise than in the form of mutual transfer of activities,
costs from one. side passing over to conquer the other, and vice versa. When.
In this way, stability of the system is achieved, its preservation in the midst of destruction
strongly directed environmental influences, it is clear that this is an additional
a ratio similar to the exchange of labor energy, or chemical exchange
‹suvoyki ‘and zoochlorema, etc. ‘And if stability reaches such a level.
high degree, as in most atoms, with a life period, one must assume,
no less than in millions of billions of years, then one has to think that this is—
additional connections are the most highly developed that it is the result
extremely long systemic divergence under extremely intense
todbore.
So, inabout all areas of experience, at all levels of organization of sub-
the same general pattern is confirmed:
`The systemic discrepancy includes'. development trend ‘directed
& additional connections. 2
It is natural and understandable that humanity in its practice follows this
: patterns, and in the sense that, regardless of one’s will, subordination to it
understands, and in the sense that he himself uses it, since he assimilates it,
because it is consciously mastered. This is, first of all, the irrationality of all

: y

public technology.

`—The entire production system, taken as a whole, consists of ‘people and things:
workers and means of production, divine - labor activities with
on the one hand, the energies of nature conquered by society in the form of tools,
materials and products are different. The relationship is clearly the same: the totality
things in production are complemented by the cooperation of people; through things, by
absorption of their energy through the consumption of products, are supported ‘and reproduced
the people's labor force is being exhausted; the expenditure of people's labor energy serves
for maintaining and reproducing a complex of technical things; ‘so
stability is mutually determined -& on a 66 basis and development - of both

parts of the system, E Vo: o
“That” same principle dominates and yad every how much
a separate part of this system. An ax and a saw functionally complement
by their activities hidden in their material form, human
organ—hand; and from it they receive, “assimilate” the activity of their action,
applications. In the ax itself ‘or in the saw, each part is adapted’ to
others so that they all functionally complement each other by
mutual transfer, i.e., chain assimilation ‘disassimilation of activities *).
Each tool becomes more perfect the more strictly and accurately it is implemented.
This ratio is realized. Machines, the highest type of tools, are divided
the functions of their parts are often extremely reminiscent of a living organism,
especially automatic mechanisms, and even more so - mechanisms that are still rare
cue, automatically adjustrunning; is, ‘for example, underwater self-propelled
a moving torpedo, with its complex engine, its depth and direction rudders,
etc. We can say that the machine, ‘the product of the most creative forms
creativity, is built by man increasingly in his image and
biyu—it is not for nothing that in an increasing number of cases it replaces his “labor power.
Systemic divergence is directed through additional connections
by the power of selection; & “consciousness” represents the apparatus of the most intense
selection of the most complex and varied combinations; so it's clear
that in his work this direction appears especially clearly, in all his

# —-—

1) So, the axe, “assimilates” the energy of Movement, which is “expended” by the hand.
The driving impulse is given at one end and passes to the other end in the form of war

‚compression so that each next ‚ part ‘begins to move as this
energy later than the previous one. to ‘some. gap. time, very short, but
‘Theoretically quite. measurable. In the same way, part of this energy. "disassimilated"
“handled” with an ax and “assimilated” with a blade. .
No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. | 15

products is found especially clearly. And not only technology, an area where
a person organizes things with the help of consciousness; but also other areas of it
activities - where they organize themselves. people into cooperation, and where organi-
experience is transformed into ideas - thoroughly imbued with the same tendency. |

Experienced organizer. in any area, is he satisfied
economic. enterprise, 'or government agency, or group
professional, political, etc., always tries to combine
people so that they complement each other in the interests of the cause; if necessary,
directs the preparation and training of each person accordingly
of them, i.e. directly evokes what is desired. their divergence to the sides is complementary
personal connections; and even the most narrow-mindedness of individuals tends
used in such a way that it facilitated the fulfillment of their special role, which
heaven and must be chosenwound’ in full accordance with it. th
2 V Same ratios. strives. develop an organizer of experience - a scientist,
philosopher, artist - in his concepts, diagrams, images. Let there be a class
the classification of living organisms, first of all, we put it into “animals” and
"plants". It’s stable, i.e., satisfactory, only as long as
any living body that does not fit into the framework of the concept “animal”,
finds a place for itself within the concept of “plant”, and vice versa. When
It turned out that some organisms: do not fit neatly into either one or the other,
combining elements of both types, i.e., that the additional ratio of the two
concepts are incomplete. iznetno, then. the system had to change. Haeckel
tried to isolate the third kingdom - “protists”, the simplest, which would include
forms; insufficiently determined, in one direction or another; other bio-
logs preferred to use. additional concept of intermediate
types; third - instead of ‘contrasting, plant and animal organ-
nisms to take as a basis the plant and animal type of life functions
ny, etc. I. exactly the same content of each. from these basic concepts
should be distributed. between more particular ones so that they are completely complementary
hired; and only ‘complemented’. each other, - etc.; only under this condition the class
sification is recognized. quite. strict. and logical. Any deviation from
additional connections, any incompleteness in them is recognized as imperfection,
a shortcoming. system, entails changing work and active selection from the
rons of ‘scientific thinking 1). The task is posed this way: this system understands
tiya must embrace the entire wealth of life forms, and each of its cycles
concepts must be fully complemented by the totality of the rest, and in such a
as much as possible to complement them.. 3 of them Zi A

In exactly the same way. poses a task for any scientific
theory, philosophical doctrine, for any legal, moral system. And
the same trend lies. at the core. art: the artistry of a work
requires that they be strictly. withstandingwe have additional relations
between the complexes that form it - images and their combinations.

Where in the system the principle of additional correlation does not hold true,
varies; there. its points of low resistance lie. In particular,
area of spiritual culture,” ideology is particularly focused
ity of negative selection, because this is the highest organizational
area of ‘social life’; here such points of inconsistency become

‚ points of application of the disorganizing work of criticism; as a result of semi-
it is expected that there will be a general collapse of the system, or partial destruction and then
perestroika. x

As we see, the pattern of systemic divergence—“differentiation”—
the same one. in all areas and at all levels of life. The higher the level
organizational forms, the more distinct and strict it is
is discovered.

{) It. and differs from “ordinary” thinking. the highest severity, i.e. intensive
the completeness of this selection.;
16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE! No. 546

mo ‚ana swarm of the siezemsky divergence, We fe E

^'Systematic 'divergence' is reflected in 'the web' and 'another' trend. ‚Together
with condition. stability - with additional ‘connections’; it’ also develops
certain conditions of ‘instability: give rise to ‘usiothematic’ contradictions’.
These contradictions, at a certain level of their development, are similar to ‘even’ ‘translated’
explain the meaning of additional connections. "Cases of this kind in
experience; they are the main mother for the 'posttic form' she

“The rational has become stupid, oh.
for good, evil has turned, no. t

her: t

ai

#

“Any complex organism, for example: ‘chelbvecheekiyu puchem bottom forroazavinie
loans develop progressively up to the known limit; t’ which
There is a decline in old age. This bastard of a war? Please in zi... right up
up to its natural end is “death.” What’s the point here?

‚ Systemic divergence: means ‘the return of differences
between parts. ‚of the whole, mofjotsey raznoetig This: and’ branches of oanyuv,
contradictions. a, #90:

‘Strength. organism, consists in not coordinating its Oh about: ‘str=
som with the answer! ‘separated and mutually related functions’ This correspondence is:
is preserved with a constantly ongoing increase in tentological differences,
but not ‘limitless’: there comes a moment ‘when’ it ‘can no longer’ completely ‘hold*
live, and ‘begins to decline’. "Parts of a whole: become too much!
different" in their "organization, "so much! different; that he vomited,
by the very nature of life, and by the strength of their ‘absolutely’ resistance to the environment. A. this:
inevitably leads to disorganization and slow or “:pain;. go
depending on the amount of conditions. "GA" heaven in

How does the discrepancy affect the ‘darkness’ of evisni, ‘it’s ‘light’, ‘it’s clear to understand:
like this. ‘analogy. Let the watchmaker ‘make several’ watches; ‘very ‘accurate, and
at the same time he put them into action; their plant operates “indefinitely:
time, or they are started as needed, but “just not” checked.
According to the law of divergence, they will “equally” “deviate” from the “true:
time: some will ‘hurry’, ‘others’ will rush, ‘and’ moreover’ in ‘different sizes::
So that they constitute one ‘whole, like’ an organism, the arrows of ‘their,’ suppose
tied with threads. It is clear that with these couples they are inevitable. they'll stop him
friend, sooner or later 1). 9

It is not difficult to imagine how the discrepancy between the pace of life:
functions, mutually necessary, can” and should “hall step” disorganized
destroy the entire system. Eg. ,. the kidneys serve to secrete certain poisons,
forming it during the life activity of various “so” of the body, how” are the products of them?
continuous partial" disintegration - disassimilation. Enough 'to? 'act-
the activity of the ‘kidneys’ remained from this city

appears,

Inconsistency in the relative concentrations of various “elements: bodies
disorganizes it in an even more direct way/The elements are less stable,
the hardy ones are simply replaced by the painful ones: the first ones die off, comparatively:
faster, and if they reproduce, then “equally” “slower than the second: Cancer,”
in our body to oldawn cells, pain-specialized - = nerve cells:
glandular and 1. and: are replaced by connective tissue cells at least
specialized and most resistant to harmful effects:

Apparently, there is even a progressive ‘destruction of vybtego cells’
TiCha tah called efagocijachea" ‚7 i.e. ';eating cells" = white
bloody “sharins” and “and others, it has the best support

$

1) This analogy with simultaneously wound parts served the old philosophers
to explain the pre-established harmony between the elements of the world - monads, or’
between body and soul. So’ this harmony’ doesn’t exist, but this
suitable for explaining the development of disharmonies. extra ozote dazzoya
*

La 15-46: PROLETARIAN CULTURE. TI

property of elements. The selection process improves all cells in their
special function. In a series of generations of phagocytes, pre-
those of them that are most adapted to
their role, i.e., which more easily defeat bacteria and all other living things
cells in their daily struggle. In the same way, cells, e.g. liver
and kidneys better adapt to the conditions of their activity: they tolerate
a greater number of poisons that are isolated from the blood, etc. But this is by no means
does not mean that their resistance to increased combat strength increases
phagocytes. Meanwhile, phagocytes do not reason at all about who they are
attack - on strangers or on their own, and devour without distinction those elements
who are not able to provide them with sufficient resistance 1). Already this
one thing must, in the end, inevitably lead to the decline of the organism.

Even more obvious are the contradictory trends in social
life—with the development of the social division of labor. It's in a huge wall
the penalty increased the productive forces of mankind; but it also led to
that; that initially integral communities broke up into individual
farms connected only by market exchange. And in market exchange the most
cooperation between individual farms takes the form of struggle betweento buyers
and sellers for price, between sellers for sales, between buyers for
opportunity to buy goods. Struggle means activities aimed at
opposite and to one degree or another destroying each other, i.e. on-
personality disingressions; although it may result in progress,
but in itself it is a disorganizational phenomenon. This also applies to the market
struggle. Observing the process of bargaining, especially in primitive, Asian
forms, one cannot help but see that it comes down to a series of mutually annihilating
efforts, which together sometimes result in a considerable waste of effort, especially
when they end in a breakdown of negotiations, therefore, complete disintegration

‚ regression of spent activities. Even more significant are the disingressions
which consist in the efforts of competitors to undermine each other, and those
which then arise from the general discrepancy between demand and supply
position from different industries, etc.

Based on the market struggle, from the same division of functions arises
and the struggle of classes, with its enormous, growing disingressions, and the struggle

` social groups, smaller units corresponding to specialization
within classes... This is how disingressions grow and accumulate, reducing living
the power of development. But until recently, she still far outweighed them.
shaft.—In this growth of contradictions it is easy to grasp the same two main points.
The discrepancy in the pace of isolated functions is revealed in the fact that individual
different branches of production that supply tools and materials to each other,
expand disproportionately: some lag behind, others overtake, so
A number of them lack either sales or the necessary means of their work.
And then production as a whole outpaces the growth of consumption in general, and semi-
general crises of “overproduction” arise, with enormous destruction of production
driving forces, with widespread processes of disorganization.

The discrepancy in the relative resistance values leads to
that among the parts, the whole—farms and enterprises—the weaker onesdestroy-
are in struggle, in competition with stronger ones; while some share
disorganized economic activities, i.e. labor force n funds
production, is absorbed, assimilated by the conquerors—this is called “con-
“centralization” of farms or enterprises, and the rest perishes fruitlessly, you
dying, disintegrating, dispersing in different ways in nature.

1) They, in fact, “choose” their objects, i.e. some are attacked, others
neg, based on the so-called. “chemiotropism” - chemical attraction and repulsion;
for example, some bacteria chemically attract them, others, on the contrary, cause resection
removal. But since phagocytes normally destroy damaged, destroyed
new; or even cells of the organism itself that have become simply unnecessary, then their chemiotropilm
and cannot save his tissues from them at all.

Proletarian culture. No. 15-16.
18 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. - No. 15—16

`The development of both points of divergence increasingly deepened the mutual

isolation of the vast parts of the system, and their practical disingress.
these. At a certain stage they inevitably had to outweigh the force of the pre-.
additional connections between parts, and lead to the rupture of these connections, to.

general collapse of the organizational form of the whole, the result should be
appear either a transformation of the structure, or simple decay. This
situation and was expressed for the system of the latest, financial capital
talism in the gigantic crisis of the world war and those who emerged from it

revolutions.

`Trace the contradictions. systemic divergence is easiest for us

namely on society, as the area of experience that is closest to
the observer, most accessible to him. You can see it here. disorganization
tional side of the process even when it is still insignificant in comparison
tion with positive organizational; e.g., from the very beginning the division
her labor might not have diminished, at least to a weak degree, mutual understanding-
communication between people, on which precise coordination of actions is based.
It is much more difficult to state the same duality of relationshipsyay,
for example, in a separate organism. However, there is no doubt that even there, at first
at the highest stages of the division of functions, long before the onset of decline, they appear,
Along with the exchange of activities, there are also the germs of struggle and competition. They.
are quite clearly manifested in various disorders and diseases associated with
the very growth of the organism. Thus, tissue competition due to nutrition is detected
is caused by emaciation of the body during periods of rapid development of the skeleton or nervous system
system, and also often during puberty. They talk about direct fight
the facts of “phagocytosis” we mentioned, etc. In pathology, the study of disease
nyah, the pictures of such contradictions are much more vivid, and are found in
every step. But modern science accepts that pathology is from physiology,
abnormal ‘life processes from normal ones do not differ in essence,
but ‘only relatively: the proportions of various elements and functions are violated,
but nothing essentially new is created; some of the permanent shadows
trends are exaggerated, others are weakened, their balance is upset
this, and nothing more. Therefore, in that struggle between cells or tissues
of the body, which is observed in diseases, it is possible with good reason
see an abnormal intensification of certain aspects or aspects of their normal,
physiological struggle.

A convenient illustration of the systemic contradictions of development is provided by
complex technical complexes—machines, scientific instruments, their perfect
improvement mostly takes the form of progressive differentiation of parts,
in the type of development of organisms. The weapon becomes more complex in order to
fulfill its purpose with intensity and precision, and at the same time
becomes “softer”, i.e. more accessible to disorganizing influences. Wakaya-
a grain of sand or even perhaps a speck of dust, a sharp fluctuation in temperature
conditions, humidity, electrical voltage, can often lead to
damage, to the unsuitability of such an instrument: with a huge number of mutually complementary
changing parts, their relative resistance to such random, sometimes
almost negligible impacts shouldturn out to be very different
two, and the fate of the whole is determined, of course, by the least of them; between
the like. influences are by no means simply “random”, they are, in general, not
necessary moment of the environment, and randomly only the performance of one or another of
them at one time or another. That is, of course, with an increase in the number of parts,
the sum of their “frictions,” i.e., internal disingressions in their movements, will melt.
Consequently, here, too, differentiation can be advantageous
only’ to. famous. the limit beyond which. its contradictions take precedence.
Then the ‘machine’ is rejected due to excessive subtlety and complexity, as it was
with many invented mechanisms for production and for the military
affairs, with many scientific-measuring, self-writing and self-regulating
existing tools,
sho — PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 19

An example of the contradictions of systemic divergence in inorganic priz-
In this way, we can take the same group: “atmosphere—hydrosphere—lithosphere.” Guide
the rosphere “corrodes” the lithosphere, extracting soluble substances from it and
destroying its crystalline rocks. The atmosphere is gradually losing
removes, through dissolution, oxygen, ‘transferring it then to oxidize
substances of the hard crust, where it remains. The hard crust, in turn,
takes water from the hydrosphere to crystallize some of its rocks,
oxygen in the air for the oxidation of others, and even some amount
nitrogen in the form of ammonium and nitrate salts formed with the assistance
certain microbes of the biosphere; carbon dioxide of limestones, chalk rocks,
dolomite was also once extracted from the atmosphere. But also the air, together
with water, continuously acts destructively on the lithosphere by
“weathering”, crushing hard rocks. So, next to the mutual
additional connections between parts of the earth's shell, although more
weak in our geological era, mutually disorganizing relationships
tions depending on the differences in the composition and condition of these parts.

Current theories of the structure of matter, as we have seen, provide groundsconsider atoms as highly differentiated systems—“polar” structure
niya, with a positive electric core and moving depending on
from it with negative electrons. But at the same time, these theories are predetermined
influence atoms in the process of destruction, which occurs only at different rates, from
from immeasurably slow for us to immeasurably fast; destruction is
It assumes, of course, systemic contradictions as the cause. If now
matter is destroyed, then someday it had to be folded, organic
to decline, to develop progressively. This development, then, should
was to go through the systemic divergence of the elements forming. atoms,
divergence, which led to their complete polarity. If so, then quite
it is natural to think that the ongoing destruction of atoms is the result of counter-
speech of their extreme systemic differentiation, developed by myriads
centuries. .

_ Thus, through all the stages of organizing ‘being, a peculiar
duality of systemic divergence: development towards increasingly sustainable
ity of forms through additional connections, and to their subsequent decomposition— _
through accumulating contradictions.

THAT. Resolution of systemic contradictions (contra-differentiation)._

The organizational task follows from systemic contradictions, especially
urgent, the stronger their development, the task of resolving or eliminating them
opinions. Life either decides in a negative way - the very thing is destroyed
system, for example, the organism dies, or in a positive way, -transformation-
the system, freeing it from contradictions. The first case will be
considered in the doctrine of systemic crises, we will move on to the second
now.

This solution is fundamentally very simple. If disorganizing pro-
contradictions arise from the divergence of parts of the system, then weaken or. arranged
their thread can be something that reduces or destroys this discrepancy, i.e.
obviously, conjugal processes between the same parts. This is what happens in
reality. at

Here is an illustration from the area of complex, but close to us - social
pressure, problem, solutionwhich has been given more than once by novelists. Husband and wife
are engaged, according to the principle of additional communication, it is so-called. "Business", she
household. At this point they differentiate to the point that in many
They begin to no longer understand each other. Misunderstandings arise
clashes in trifles, disputes and quarrels; the family is disorganized step by step.
The denouement can be either its destruction—the rupture of the most additional
connections, or a revolution in the relationship of the spouses. If they understand the reality -
the cause of the discord and, in an effort to come to an understanding, will strengthen mutual communication,

2*
20 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

will become more familiar with each other's affairs and interests,
develop mutual conjugation of the family, then family harmony can be restored
to grow on new foundations, wider and deeper than before.

The solution is simple, but it contains a certain tectological
ical difficulty. In its basic meaning, it is a counter-differentiation,
i.e. opposite to the discrepancy in which additional
personal connections. Will they be sufficiently preserved under such conditions? -
If not, then since the stability of the system depended on them, the result
should be negative. |

In our example, at least such a course of things is possible: The husband is so
captured by public, royal affairs, which without prejudice: for this
function can no longer devote either time or energy to the exchange of experiences
with his wife; and even she, in turn, is so enslaved by children,
kitchen, cleaning, that she no longer has free energy, and how much
she can only be distracted from all this at the cost of overwork,
accumulation of minor failures and shortcomings in the economy, its post-stage disarray
organization Then attempts to solve the problem lead both sides to inconvenience.
satisfaction with oneself and each other, to the development of new disingressions on the spot
overcome old ones, and if the minus is not covered by the plus, by the end
body wreck. This outcome is all the more likely the further you have already
come in differentialtion, the more difficult it is to establish mutual understanding,
i.e. actual communication between both parts of the system. E$

Meanwhile, in other cases, counter-differentiation does not lead to
weakening, but to ‘expansion, to improvement of the same special
functions. And not only in the way that, by reducing disingression, she.
increases the practical amount of system activities, but in another way
way. H

In our example, the husband, living a socio-political life, let's say
deals with broad, vaguely unfolding for his consciousness
masses in a vague fermentation, the pattern of which for
it is far from formalized; their strength then crystallizes into unexpectedly powerful,
victorious impulse, then blurs and disperses in some kind of spontaneous
apathy; sometimes the success of the most daring plans is achieved with amazing
ease, at times it is not given to the most intense, the most persistent
efforts. Based on this variability and instability of the environment, our
social policy, a point of view and methods are emerging, including
a shade of utocism and adventurism: setting tasks that are broad and deep, but
too often, without sufficient calculation of their feasibility, courage and determination
performance, but also a kind of game for certain
risk. From here failures inevitably arise, sometimes very difficult, but
which, with a different attitude to the matter, could have been avoided.—On the other hand,
rons, the wife in her narrow sphere is forced to develop maximum organiza-
Nizator's planfulness and practicality: she has to calculate everything
to the end, to provide for everything, to coordinate all the details of your economy, not
having the opportunity to look further: a point of view and
methods: limited practicality.

What happens then with successful counter-differentiation? Mutual
penetration of points of view, mutual assimilation of methods developed in the development of
different environment, on different functions. One acquires a certain share of non-
the practical sobriety and organizational prudence that he enjoys;
the other is more practical breadth,organizational courage. What's per-
everything is necessary and useful under all conditions, there is nothing to prove; what's the second
important even within the narrow confines of a family economy, this is easy to illustrate
on such tasks as managing the upbringing of children, helping them
as a result of parental experience in marriage, etc. Both
special functions then win as special; their "coefficient"
beneficial effect increases.

!

No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 21

The development of mankind was accompanied by the settlement of people in different
territories and adaptation to their special environment. So they isolated themselves
communities of the same tribe, tribes of the same people, peoples of the same race,
Thus, through accumulating differences, special races. The discrepancy 'had
systemic in nature: the attraction to additional connections was clearly manifested in
that divergent groups and collectives developed over time
‘sharing your special products and your different experiences. Syotem-
new contradictions were revealed in increasing cultural alienation,
mutual. misunderstanding—here in the foreground there is a discrepancy in the field
language, - clashes of interests, enmity, wars of tribes and peoples, in colossus
greasy waste of energy that came from here. weakened and overcame
These contradictions also emerged through counter-differentiation, in the form of any
types of conjugation processes: marital mixing, mutual influence
dialects and languages, borrowing technical techniques, knowledge, customs,
communication of literature, in general all kinds of cultural mutual assimilation
tions. The stronger it goes, the more organized, the more stable
This becomes the cohabitation of tribes and peoples and races on the earth's surface.

The usual course of things is this: as differentiation deepens,
contradictions accumulate; sooner or later this is resolved by crisis. Forms
There have been crises. different; most often - a war that ends peacefully. dogo-
by gaze or conquest; sometimes even without it, an alliance agreement, the creation of common
authorities regulating relations between partiesHe. The solution to the problem was
was sometimes positive, successful, sometimes negative - an outcome in
decline, into disintegration of connections; both are possible for any shape of the curve.
zisa. War, for example, many times “led to the closest conjugation” of struggles
parties, to their equal mixing or to absorption’ of one of
them with another; but it happened that a peaceful state or union society
unity then led to disorganization. One way or another, but really
a new resolution of contradictions here too ‘was only as a result of communication,
greater or lesser interpenetration of divergent system components
plexes.

What is the mechanism that, during contra-differential

Is ciation capable of resolving systemic contradictions? What are

most immediately, the methods by which this is achieved? Research the issue
Obviously, we need to start with the simplest cases, & not as complex as
previous examples. The point is, after all, simply about conjugation between parts
systems that have become heterogeneous. What can conjugation give in general?
between heterogeneous complexes? o

The simplest heterogeneity is one that can be expressed in numbers,
i.e. quantitative. Let there be two drops of water in which
ordinary salt—sodium chloride; but one is a solution of tripro-
cent, the other - one percent. Let's merge 0be together; they will mix and
The solution will be all 2 percent. Quantitative leveling has occurred.
This is the first thing you can expect with any conjugation. Isn’t it the same?
Is it possible to resolve systemic contradictions?

Yes, first of all it does exist; and there are quite a few cases where this side
business is very important. Let's take a couple of illustrations.

As is known, the vital activity of each cell is accompanied by secretion
by eating certain foods that are not needed for her, or even
harmful, poisonous. But the cell does not always manage to secrete all the substances of this
kind, and some may accumulate in it; in small quantities they are not for her
harm, but beyond a certain limitbegin to interfere with its functions, weaken it,
poison her. Let for cells of a known species one of these products
becomes noticeably harmful, starting from the amount of 5 units.
Two cells of this species copulate, merge: in one, the secretion of this
the substance went well, and there is only 1 unit of it, the other is bad, and
As many as 5 units had accumulated, suppressing its vitality. After conulation
22. PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

and dividing inversely by two, each contains 3 units of a given substance,
and it no longer poisons them.

Moreover. Weakness of secretion by one cell and its increased energy
gy manifested by the other can also be leveled off, so that in
in the future, both cells will keep its amount at a harmless level
level. And even if ‘for a given substance the second cell made it possible
ability to overcome the contradiction in life, then for someone else it is,
perhaps the former does, in turn maintaining general vitality.

The first cell would die from substance A, the second from substance BB; by
contra - differentiations are both saved. Why? Because they decided
organizational task posed by the law of least. Their fate is determined
is divided into the smallest relative resistances, and the largest ones, which
next to this there are other relations, they cannot prevent it. But
they mutually equalized their smallest and greatest resistances,
led them to some “average” values, which about and became
place of the former smallest.

This is the general elementary solution to the problem of overcoming the smallest;
his method boils down to using conjugation to increase the smallest ones due to
the largest. It is, of course, applicable insofar as, firstly, this
conjugation is possible, and secondly, since it itself does not lead to such
radical restructuring of the system, in which the previous smallest and most
shiyas are no longer leveled out, but generally lose their meaning. r

So, suppose there is a rail that in one part is capable of not
breaking, withstand a weight of 1600poods, and in another - only 500 poods
Dov. In order to conjugate one and the other part, they must also be brought into easy
mobile, plastic state, which they do not assume under these conditions
put. This can be done, for example, by melting. Then you can expect
give the average about 1000 poods, which will, at the same time, be the smallest.
But the melting itself can, depending on the temperature, an influx of acid
kind, etc., significantly change the structural properties of steel, and
Then it will turn out completely different.

The speed of the squadron, as we know, is determined by the smallest of the speeds
its individual units. If possible, “conjugate” with towing chains
high-speed ships with slow-moving ones, then the smallest would be an increase
shena.. Something similar is represented by “riding infantry”, which allows
combine to some extent the speed of attack characteristic of cavalry,
with its strength characterizing the infantry.

Sexual crossbreeding represents a process developed by nature and widely
also used by man is the method of counter-differentiation, leveling
features are individual, racial, sometimes even species. So, for example, for
transport in mountainous countries requires very strong and resilient animals
tall, and very calm, with a firm gait, devoid of nervousness. Horse
strong, but nervous and relatively little endurance; the donkey is free from nerves
strength and endurance, but, due to his small stature, not so strong. Their bastard is a mule
combines all the necessary qualities. But, of course, it is not always a mixture.
gives such simple results; sometimes it gives rise to completely new and
unexpected structural changes, sometimes its products from the very beginning
the beginnings turn out to be unstable, so that, for example, between species; as if not
less closely related than a horse and a donkey, crossbreeding fails at all. .

Let in those two drops of water that served us the first illumination
strations, not one salt is dissolved in different proportions, but two different ones.
If “one of them, let’s say, is the same” sodium chloride, and the other is sodium chloride
calcium, then the matter will come down, as before, to growthpenetration of solutions into
half the proportion of both salts. But if one is calcium chloride,
the other is sodium carbonate (soda), then you get something different. Released from water
a precipitate pours out—lime carbonate, in the form of ben powder, the composition of which is the same
kovogo with chalk; and sodium chloride will remain in the solution again; there are still left
*

No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 23

the current of the one of the two former salts, which. was in comparative abundance.
Why did this happen?

Modern. theoretical chemistry accepts that when two meet
different chemical compounds, their elements enter into all sorts of
combinations, but only those that are stable are retained; other
those that are unstable immediately disintegrate again. In other words, all these
combinations become material for selection, negative and positive
body In this case, all sorts of combinations should have been formed
available atoms; but one of them immediately, as it is formed, consolidates
lost by selection, because it directly broke away from the entire system and left
areas of further interaction, & therefore, from further changes.
This is calcium carbonate, which is insoluble in water and precipitates from it into
in the form of a solid precipitate. Other compounds continue to arise, decay,
regroup in a whirlwind of reaction; but as soon as among these regroupings
Once again, particles of calcium carbonate are obtained, they also fall out,
and thus are secured, etc. It is clear that things go this way until those
until all the material for this connection is exhausted; and then
The selection of remaining groups continues until a stable mobile
balance. It is obtained when the remaining salts and their ions are distributed
are divided in such proportions that the disintegration and formation again of each
combinations occur at the same speed, so both
mutually covered.

Here we have before us the second moment of contra-differentiation, the moment which
This often reduces the value of the first—quantitative equalization—to zero.
Precisely, con’justion gives a newmaterial for resizing and selection, i.e.
in general for the structural transformation of the entire system.

‚ If, in the above example, the presence of two simple chemical
the compounds in two drops of water were enough to give rise to such
complex series of selection processes and such new structural relationships
niyam, then you can imagine how rich the material is for ‘that and
another is given, for example, by the sexual conjugation of two living cells. We must assume
this. it is precisely in this, and not in elementary alignment, that its main
organizational significance, although this, as was mentioned, may turn out to be
useful for preserving life. Of course, one should assume in advance that
of this rich material of new combinations, the vast majority are always
will be unfavorable. But life is not reproduced for nothing by reproduction
in countless copies. Let only very few combinations turn out to be
successful, they will be preserved and will be supported in the future
multiplication.

The simplest form of sexual crossing is copulation and conjugation.”
single-celled organisms of bacteria, amoebas, ciliates, etc. For the last
It has been intensively studied for a decade. Woodreff's experiments on Rath's ciliates
‘feeds on amheTsa, which conjugates normally after several tens of generations
niya, found out that under certain conditions it can do without horses’ -
jugation over several thousand generations, while remaining completely
viable. These conditions were as follows: after each cell division
Woodref took one of the two and transferred it to a fresh nutrient solution, which
which was changed frequently, and all measures were taken to remove poisonous
for the cell products it. life activity. It’s clear that something was going on here
an ideal environment, with the almost complete elimination of not only harmful, but even
generally changing influences. In a normal life situation, then
cells are surrounded by such influences, moreover, varied for individual
individuals, and is inevitably subject, on their basis, to systemic divergence,
differentiation. At the same time, even ifevery cell adapts
successfully, its viability will inevitably decrease at least
in the sense of narrowing: adaptation specifically to such and such an environment, to such and such
then to external influences, and ‘not to others; and besides. Togo. Certainly. permanent sleep

=
24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

nothing can be expected in this struggle of life. It is this differentiation
and this unfavorable side of it makes counter-differentiation generally necessary.
ation as a solution to the problem. However, in Woodref's experiments, the problem was eliminated,
her decision becomes unnecessary. In reality, probably, the conditions, its
generating, and here they are not completely absent, but only weakened greatly
times—hundreds, maybe thousands of times; and accordingly longer they must
accumulate until a vital need for a solution arises.

But what does it really consist of? Jennings' Careful Observations
found that after conjugation the average mortality of the same ciliate #o-
rose up, & reproduction slowed down. “This one seems unexpected and pars-
doxical result, inspiring at first glance the idea of the dangers of con-
jugation, in fact, however, is quite consistent with what we could
tectologically expect. It provides a wealth of material for new combinations for
selection; but, as we said, from these combinations, from the changes that arise
the majority, and a significant one, must be accepted in advance as unpalatable, because
that the process is spontaneous, there is no order in it. There's nothing
Therefore, it is unfortunate that for individual cells conjugation is more often harmful than
useful, and sometimes, probably, downright disastrous. But it is absurd to allow
a complex reflex with the help of which conjugation is performed existed
and was developed specifically to harm life. That, on average,
bad for individual 060bays, may, in general, be beneficial for the species. And this
is found in other experiments of the same Jennings. He raised many
numerical generations of Ratamoesli, so to speak, in separate lines, carefully
effectively eliminating the possibility of mixing differentstraight lines, and selecting in each
strictly equal individuals. Of these parallel series, in some there is conjugation to
was allowed, in others not. Both were exposed to harmful effects,
unusual for them, elevated temperature, 32° (. It turned out that out of 51
of the pure line of those who did not conjugate, 35 died, 16 survived, i.e., 69°/, versus 31° _
out of 47 conjugating lines, 11 died, i.e., only 23°), ‘36’ survived, i.e. 77°
In the second case, it means that vital stability under destructive conditions
the effect turned out to be significantly higher: the percentage of survivors was 2\/ times greater,
3 times less dead.

Jennings himself draws the conclusion that in op living conditions
Conjugation is not needed, but in unfavorable situations it is a very important and valuable principle.
ability. It gives more scope for changes in life form and
their selection: conjugated lines are more flexible and have the potential for development
richer material in each individual 1).

So, for individuals, conjugation increases mortality and slows down reproduction.

nie; for races it increases vitality in the fight against destructive
forces.

No conjugation - not only this biological one, but also no other,
in the most general, tectological sense of the word - cannot be accomplished without
waste of activities. The matter is about restructuring the system, among the selection of its
elements and their connections, groupings - selection, first of all, of course,
as always in nature, negative, especially when perestroika
It's like a crisis here. For each of the previous complexes their
merger, even partial, means the inclusion of a number of new
combinations, but alien in origin, not to this composition and structure
adapted. The more intense should be the work of the negative
selection r

+) Jenning believes that the slowdown in further cell division is also
one thing, because each act of division temporarily weakens them, and this is under unfavorable conditions
conditions are especially harmful. Tectolopically, this slowdown, if it turns out to be permanent,
formal and obligatory, can be understood, for example, this wayaz. Cells that survived
conjugations already have, obviously, increased structural stability, and division
the cells are, in any case, a structural crisis; and ‘it is natural that the increase in structure
tour stability washes it away.
No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 25

Such work, with the waste of vital activities, is inevitable even when
cell conjugation. The waste may be more or less; benefits of connection
The differences also differ in degree, as well as in character. General
the result of perestroika can be both a plus and a minus, an increase in the vital capacity
ness conjugant or its decrease. With enormous physical and chemical
complexity of the cell, it is not surprising that the result is more often negative -
ny, and the average mortality rate increases. But we know the tectological role
negative selection: at the cost of destruction, it leads to greater organizational
no coherence, harmony; and in cases where its destructive function
does not go beyond a known limit, increasing structural stability
capable of outweighing, sometimes very significantly, the decrease in stability
quantitative, i.e. the total amount of system activities.

The greater the divergence of conjugating complexes, the relatively
there must be more internal contradictions of the conjugated whole, and
This means that the greater the waste of activities. But this is one side of the matter; other
no less important. The weaker the divergence, the less energetic the restructuring,
and the less it is capable of producing new organizational combinations, new
devices. Obviously, there must be some “optimum”, i.e.
the best ratio, in this case the most favorable degree of distribution
movement of individual cells, in which the most favorable results are obtained
results for. life and development of the species. "Since the divergence in the offspring
each cell grows with each generation, then, in normal circumstances, given
new wood, after a certain number of generations there should come
this approximate ›optimum divergence, taken again, of course,
on average, formasses of individuals. Natural selection and must adapt
development of the corresponding instinct or reflex to this optimum, expressed
maintaining a certain periodicity of conjugations or copulations. For others
For unicellular organisms, such a period occurs in several dozens, for
others - several hundred generations.

In all other cases, counter-differentiations can be traced
the same features: the role of negative selection, unfavorable for quantitative
stability of forms, but even more favorable for structural stability, when
the destruction does not go far; insignificance of conjugation results with
too weak a discrepancy, the likelihood of its unfavorable
or even a disastrous outcome - if it is too strong. Let's limit ourselves to a few
some examples.

‚ History tells us at the cost of what efforts, what sometimes
flows of blood and what destruction of the products of labor the unification bought
government organizations, the merging of peoples and tribes, even the closest
among themselves. Moreover, from a tectological point of view, as already noted,
the difference between “violent” and “peaceful” merger is not significant;
difference in the number and intensity of disingressions; but they always have
are evident. Even the most peaceful mutual assimilation of those living nearby
tribes goes through countless frictions and minor clashes that arise
based on divergent interests and mutual misunderstanding, i.e., in essence,
different structures of merging socio-cultural complexes. Than
the greater the discrepancy, the greater the amount of disingressions one can expect, the more
more likely a “violent” type of counter-differentiation, through direct struggle.

In the same way, the unification of party, scientific, cultural
organizations, although pre-connected by a common social environment, family
social composition and one’s life tendencies, one always gets by,
in a considerable amount of effort and is always accompanied by the elimination of some
elements, The first means the expenditure of activities on mutual adaptation
merging organizations; second—ndirect loss through negative sub-
a selection of combinations not adapted to the new structure. So, for example, right
merger of political parties or factions to avoid internal strife,
some programmatic and tactical elements are sacrificed; equal
26 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

In a different way, becoming unnecessary or inconvenient, some
private bodies, positions, special centers; are usually thrown away ‹
and some members of organizations dissatisfied with the association, or capable
serve as an obstacle to it. If the conjugation divergence is too large,
existing complexes, waste of activities and new contradictions may turn out to be
so great that the vitality of the whole will be lower, not higher, than before;
and the matter will end in decay or reverse disintegration.

Marriage is a partial psycho-physiological conjugation of two individuals
with the formation of a more complex whole-family. And here is a waste of both forces
parties to mutual adaptation always happens, only its magnitude is very
are different. Usually it is more than covered by positive results.
tatami of marriage, but sometimes reaches such an extent that the whole turns out
unstable, and the conjugants again diverge with reduced viability,
or even crippled, This case corresponds to their excessive life-
new discrepancy. Too weak differentiation makes a connection, so
to say, “meaningless,” sterile for the development of both sides. Vpro-
What, thanks to the uneven development of different body systems, in particular
ity, nervous and sexual, marriage, sterile and meaningless for personal
life of the spouses may not be the same, & more successful in the sense of ‘creating
offspring; but equal. So the opposite is also possible. This dual
the nature of marriage, including the conjugation of two mental personalities for
vital cooperation, on the one hand, and two germ cells for
the birth of a new life—on the other hand, it gives birth in present-day humanity
many contradictions and inconsistencies; and will give birth to them until
still scientific thoughtand scientific technology will not fully master the conditions
the best combination of embryonic elements and harmonious development
human being from the very beginning.

o It should be noted that in sexual reproduction in general it is especially clear
the work of negative selection appears. When they cross significantly
divergent varieties of the same species, for example, diverse, developed
artificially selected breeds. domestic pigeon, then it turns out that
rotation to the original, undifferentiated type - to the wild type
the pigeon from which these breeds originated. Therefore, it is discarded
a whole series of elements and groupings acquired in the process of divergence
and fixed in each breed by heredity; acquisition of one
‘conjugants do not fit the structure of the other, and are destroyed due to this
contradictions, but also vice versa.

Here the “contra-differentiating” role of sexual diversity is especially clear.
marriage. It, as we see, not only increases vitality, weakened
divergence - but in addition generally counteracts the unrestrained
divergence, and this is necessary, because such a divergence, coexisting
the life of each form would sooner or later lead to its death on the basis
one-sided development, adaptation to limited, special
conditions, and the inability to adapt when they change. I don't understand
why is sexual reproduction especially necessary for higher organisms, and less
important for the lower ones: the more complex the forms, the easier it happens and the more significant
the more divergence develops in the offspring.

`If we move on to the highest areas of human creativity, then we
We see the same relationships and patterns. How, for example, the simplest is created
‘generalization? By conjugation, usually, of a number of related
of ideas. At the same time, evil ones are eliminated from the resulting whole.
ments of difference, i.e. precisely divergent, incompatible with each other.

Marx's principle of scientific socialism was the result of the
thorny counter-differentiation. Social revolutionary tendency in to
time was sharply differentiated into two sides: the ideal of “communism” in
heads of utopians, representatives of the most advanced, ardently
intellectuals who gave to the working masses, and the labor movement, as it

I
E. PROLETARIAN CULTURE. O.

in fact, the idea took shape and was vaguely taking shape in the minds of the working masses
common struggle for a better life. In Marx's synthesis, both were subjected to
purification from a number of former elements. From the idea of the labor movement
were eliminated: hostility to mapin technology, professional workshop
narrowness, ideas about the crude material nature of his goals, about the elemental
new immediacy of action. The ideal of communism ‘was liberated from
moral and philanthropic overtones, from connection with faith in the possibility
implement it by convincing the upper classes of its justice, from ordinary
religious admixtures to it, etc. The whole turned out to be incomparably more
slim and vital. her
In the inorganic world the relationships are of the same type. All conjugations
‘material bodies, from the astronomical “marriage of worlds”, i.e. collisions
or close approach of avedas and nebulae, to the simple merger of two drops
liquids, accompanied by the disintegration of atoms, in gigantic or insignificant
` quantity, waste of energy, in radiant form or through its entrocpic
scattering And everywhere, therefore, the restructuring of form proceeds on the basis of negation.
effective selection, simplifying and harmonizing by destroying
- processes. . t
Counter-differentiation is endlessly common in nature. We vi-
share examples of it at all levels of organization. Now we note that to
in essence, all cases of alignment in general should be included in it
stresses: temperature equalization between bodies through radiative exchange
or thermal conductivity, equalization of mechanical pressures through waves
compression and expansion, equalization of electricity in conductors through di-
series or current, equalization of the composition of liquids, gases through diffusion, etc. d.
_"And here, as in any counter-differentiation, the simple quantitynatural
alignment is only the first moment; It's just a matter of scientific abstraction
can be reduced to him alone; in reality, it is always behind him that the second
swarm moment—structural changes in the selection of a new material of combinations.
The idea of the connection of everything that exists, “world ingress”, represents
the entire universe accessible to us, as an infinitely unfolding differential
aligned system, and all the alignment processes taking place in each of its
point—as continuous counter-differentiation. This side of nature is
much more has been studied than the mechanism of its primary divergence; 'on ` it's something
and different theories are built about the impending death of existence, through its blurring
in indifference, in universal equalization, thermal and any other. But
Until now, science does not know how those differences that are now formed
aligned as those atoms that are now disintegrating were formed,
what are the foundations of the very differentiation of the world. While this is so, all sorts of constructions
about the limiting contra-differentiation are completely arbitrary.

U. Tectology of the fight against old age.

Let's try to apply the outlined patterns to one
a simple but vitally interesting question—about methods of combating old age.
Until now, it has been considered as a question of special applied sciences -
medicine and hygiene, based on special theoretical - physical
logic with pathology. But if old age, as indicated in the previous one, is
a simple case of a general organizational fact—the contradictions of a systemic
discrepancy, then the question can be posed tectologically; on this news
a novelty is always the most broadly generalizing, i.e. most ‘suitable’

Noy to find out the solution to the problem.
° Old, specialized scientific thinking approached the task following
‘in the following way: It tried to analyze the phenomena of old age, like any
other diseases, and then ‘looked for appropriate’ medicines against them, and
warning diet. Thus, the odians saw the basis of the process in the deterioration of blood
treatment—loss of elasticity of blood vessels and calcification of their walls, and
youthis was subject to hygienic and therapeutic measures; ‘others, giving
28 | PROLETARIAN KUL TUBA. 7 No. 15—16

of particular importance is the loss of some internal secretions associated with
sexual life, they tried to replace them with external additions, extraction techniques
zhek from seminiferous glands, etc.; still others, taking the chronicle as their starting point
chemical poisoning of the body with intestinal poisons, developed against it
food diet, etc. There is undoubtedly a lot of truth in all this, and
Valuable conquests have already been made along these routes. But such methods are all limited.
Chenna in one sense: they are irincitial-partial. Meanwhile, old age
nature, not ‘partial damage to the body, and not even simple
the sum of partial damages, at least very many. It's a disease, so...
in other words, tectological, covering the entire structure of the organism; partial me-
toda ‘against her; in medical terms, only palliatives, i.e.
means of combating not the disease as a whole, not its basis, but only individual
certain “symptoms”, particular manifestations. And the creators themselves
methods, in general, admit this, believing that they are fighting rather against
“premature” old age for “normal”, “natural”; and such,
in their opinion, is the latest old age that is possible with the best
shay ‘living environment. And this old age is already understood as something permanent
false; for her, consciously or unconsciously, hidden or open, accepted
there is, in essence, a metaphysical foundation, some kind of “exhaustion”
vitality of the elements of the body, as if it were some kind of special,
in a certain way. the amount of force invested in it, and not constantly changing:
there is a meaningful relationship between his activities and the activities that destroy him.

From a tectological point of view, another, fundamentally general,
the formulation of the problem, what exactly, this should already be clear from the previous one.
Case. it is about resolving contradictions through systemic discrepancies. The method is not
partial only, but the whole is also known to us: contra-differentiation.
The question concludesis how it is. it would be possible to apply.

Or, when studying the issue, we will have in mind only the
organism, then difficulties are immediately detected, apparently not
surmountable. Firstly, conjugation generally gives positive results
only up to a certain stage of divergence; when it. went further than this stu-
fine, the merger turns out to be too disharmonious, accompanied by too
large waste of activities; and even further - it comes down to the inevitable
failure, to complete collapse, to destruction. In the human body, ste-
The degree of differentiation of cells of different tissues is incomparably greater than that
movement that exists between cells of the same cell capable of conjugation
species, even if relatively highly developed, like, say, ciliates
Ratalpoee at. For a biologist it is clear that, for example, the conjugation of a nerve cell with
a striated muscle fiber would be a vital absurdity. When
Moreover, any such counter-differentiation would inevitably dissipate
fundamentally complex additional relationships—the basis of vital stability
body news; and problems of this type are generally solvable only insofar as
since after conjugation the necessary additional connections are retained.

Secondly, purely technically direct conjugation of dissimilar tissues
organism is impossible without their destruction, because all their functions
are stably associated with their position in the body, and this, in turn,
secured by the skeletal system (bones, cartilage, connective tissue).

If so, then on. which way to look for solutions? On the one on which it
our great mentor in tectology—Nature—searches and finds. She, when
she has to solve problems of this type, expands the range of data: not
limited to one individual, but takes two, or even more. Copulation and
conjugation of unicellular organisms, fusion of germ cells in higher
are precisely ways of fighting against the negative side of systems -
significant discrepancy. Individual narrowing of vitality, individual
Its new decline is being overcome by the united forcesllami individuals; and is achieved
even what, not without reason, some biologists called “immortality”
protoplasm."
No. 1516 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 29

Conjugation between human beings is still known to us
in two forms. Firstly, sexual, as in other organisms; she obviously
very partial. However, in reality it doesn’t boil down to just drinking
two cells out of some hundreds of thousands of billions that form the parent
sky organisms; this is evident from the facts of “reflected heredity”, when
a woman who had children from her first husband continues to bring similar
his children are already in another marriage 1). Secondly, communication of experience, con’yuga-
tion of experiences through speech, facial expressions, art and other means of expression
and perception, developed in a number of functions of the neuromuscular apparatus.
This conjugation is by no means only “psychic”, as shown
its results at repeated and prolonged communication, which happens, for example,
between spouses. Due to the dependence of all organs and tissues on the nervous
brain activity, over 15-20 years of marriage, one acquires
‚external physical similarity between spouses, which is not on average
less, and sometimes more, than the usual similarity between brothers and sisters.

Medicine has already managed to add a third form to these two, until
still one-sided and very partial, but still a direct physical connection
ations; these are various grafting of organs and tissues: grafting of skin for pain
serious burns, blood transfusions, infusions of blood serums, etc.
Alexis Carrel's experiments on animals with vaccination are sometimes quite complex
the most important organs, for example, kidneys, from one individual to another, reveal the most
broad prospects in this direction.

In practice, such vaccinations represent a solution to the familiar
type of tasks—“for certain resistances.” In a known part of the body
or its known function, its relative activities are insufficient
development; they have to be added from outside, so to speak: with a great loss
blood is possible, fromavoiding the death of the organism, replenishing with the blood of another
person; in case of danger from introduced differential microbes and
their poisons - inject a serum that paralyzes them from the “immunized”
animal, etc. This formulation of the problem also implies the one-sidedness
conjugative act: blood transfusion from one person to another; but
not the exchange of it, not its general mixing - and its partiality.

Contra-differentiation has a different character. She can consider-
be considered as a solution to a general problem, a problem on indefinitely variable
resistance." And, of course, the task of struggle belongs precisely to this type
with old age. Of course, a solution emerges in the manner of a conjugative
renewal of living cells. But these cells, with their colloidal, semi-liquid
structure, easily ‘can physically mix, entirely or exchanging
some part of its living tissue. Two human organisms, with their na-
ru” ‘mm skeleton—skin, and internal—bones, cartilage, etc., so
n, then they are not able to mix. What is possible here? With modern
scientific technology, direct, immediate conjugation of those
Canes of various organisms that have a liquid form - i.e. blood
and lymph. These are the tissues that make up the internal ‘conjugative
environment of the body, which maintain its chemical unity, by
continuous exchange with all other tissues. Technically the case should
be reduced to a somewhat simplified operation of blood transfusion, to one
temporary, exchange transfusion from individual A to ‘individual WB,
and from VK A, with neither one nor the other incurring quantitative losses.

What can such an operation achieve? Of course, it would be naive to assume
to lie, as some alchemists thought in the old days, that the young
blood is simply, so to speak, mechanically capable of rejuvenating an old organism
the excess of “life force” contained in it, and the old one is just as pro-
This is the best way to make a young man grow old. But it would be no less mistaken to see in it
just a nutrient liquid. She is a living tissue, very complex’ and andhaving

\

1} This form of heredity will be discussed further.

s
4

30 | PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

enormous organizational significance. Leukocytes live in it, leading their
the fight against internal enemies—microbes; its serum produces
antitoxins—“antidotes”—to microbial and other poisons; there are circulations in it
“hormones”, internal secretions of the whole, are produced. a number of special glands,
regulating the life of the organism in many respects. Being internal
environment of the body, the environment for all its organs and tissues, blood “correlatively
strong” with them, like any environment, bears their structural imprint
current as their life supplement. Therefore, as the exact
research is individual in its composition, i.e. not the same in different
organisms. It cannot but affect all organs and tissues, as they all
influence her. When it is transmitted from organism to organism, it is inevitable
are transmitted, to one degree or another, for example, “immunities”—the ability to resist
resist various infections; leukocytes are transmitted, with one or another ste-
penu combat effectiveness; hormones are transmitted, with their regulating tendencies

tions, etc. And
° The most likely conclusion is this. EConjugation of liquid tissues of the organiza-

mov should have not a partial, but a general impact on their livelihoods. .

There is every reason to believe that young blood, with its materials taken

from young tissues, can help the aging body in its struggle.

those lines along which he is already suffering defeats, i.e., along which he

namely “getting old”; to what extent it can help, this, of course, can be found out.

only experience. Yo }
But is there any reason to assume that old blood should “stay”?

“to think” a young organism? This is highly unlikely. The power of youth concludes
It lies, after all, in its enormous ability to assimilate and process. all sorts of things
material: She is known to easily cope even with direct loss
quite a large amount of blood, quickly restoring it. It should be expected
ensure that it will cope with weakened, deteriorated materialblood, except, perhaps, in cases of infection; moreover, in an older or,
in general, the worst blood should still be found, and such elements for
developments, which were not in this best one. - However, there is no basis -
refusal to limit such conjugation precisely to the combination of the old and the new
dogo, or strong and weak: the expansion of life here generally depends on
you500& beyond individuality, from adding individual to indi-
visual for life. approvals not
`Some important details emerge naturally. Let, for example, in
one organism due to the individual conditions of its origin and development,
predominantly one or two toxins accumulate, which cannot be completely
remove from his tissues or paralyze his blood, in another - others.
Then blood exchange should lead to deep cleansing and refreshment

body, to free the body from specifically harmful

him internal. poisons .
Next, the transfer of immunities against various diseases. When exchanging

blood it is possible in the widest quantities because the amount of blood
blood poured from both sides can be very large, amounting to quite
a significant part of the total, its quantity. In addition, one should expect
transfer not only of those immunities that are acquired by transferring
disease or inoculation of toxins, but also others, the transmission of which before
Until now, we have not been able to achieve age-dependent immunities (in
adults against some childhood diseases, and vice versa), from hereditary
sti, it. p:

But perhaps the main gain will be a positive increase
tion of the sum of development elements. We, however, still don’t know exactly which
To the extent that blood and lymph serve as carriers of organic properties embodied
in other organs and tissues. But from an organizational point of view it is unthinkable
so that with continuous and close communication with them these liquid tissues do not reflect
suffered from their structure and composition. There is also a direct indication of this; if
No. 15-16. PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 81

there is heredityburdened property - and ve to recognize in the known
least; Apparently, modern science has to, then through some other
environment, if not through blood and lymph, could be transmitted by germ cells.
from other parts of the body are necessary, so to speak, “imprints” of what happened
there are changes 1).

Of course, there are many difficulties and even dangers along this path:
we know from other forms of conjugation that the combination of individual combinations
plexes are not always favorable, not to mention the possibility
transmission of diseases, etc. But it is obvious that ‘from this only non-
the need for systematic research and careful experimentation, such as
starting with animals. Ketati says that such experiments on animals are technically
have already been carried out, but with completely different goals. To find out how
internal poisons, products of overwork, etc. affect the body,
a crossover was arranged. blood circulation, - artificially connected sleepy
arteries of two dogs so that the blood of one feeds the brain of the other, and
back. And those who did this experiment did not even notice, apparently, that
At the same time, they graft living tissue on a huge scale: almost
` half of the animal’s blood (if the experiment lasts sufficiently) is replaced
they take someone else's blood.

The main reason why research has not yet entered into
a path that opens up before him a huge field of work and prospects for innocent
these victories, this is the individualism of modern scientific thinking, for which
Firstly, the idea of a deep physiological exchange of personal life should be
appear not only alien, but downright repulsive. Of course, development
will overcome this obstacle °). .

UG. Convergence of forms.

Convergence of forms has a different organizational meaning than contra-difference.
renciation—otherness and origin. Both are most easily illustrated
in the technical casting process. Any given amount of metal, and even
various metals or other substances with a certain fusibility,
passing through the same foundryyu cavity, acquires the same
surface covering the same volume is a very complete geometric
toe-in It will also work if more than one
the same casting mold, but several are identical. Obviously, the basis of such
facts lies in the influence on various complexes from the same
a new or similar environment that changes them in a certain way.

The mechanism is essentially not complicated. Molten matter particles
moving in all possible directions, spreading in all directions.
These movements lead to filling of the entire cavity; but on its borders they remain-
poured in. There is a cohesion of hard parts that counteracts them.
sots, an insignificant fraction of which is sufficient to form a complete disintegration
regression with the translational activities of liquid particles. And complete disingression
means both negative selection and, on its basis, a tectological boundary.
By subsequent solidification of the liquid, depriving it of the mobility of particles, this
the border is fixed by what, in fact; and the technical goal of the casting is achieved.
Repeating the operation with new quantities of the molten substance gives
new copies similar to the first. :

This can be summarized as follows: convergence is the result of similar
directed ``100 boron from the side of a similar medium. Difference with contra-differentiation
tion is quite clear: there is a discrepancy, or its negative consequences,
paralyzed by direct conjugation of divergent forms; there's such a con`-

1) It’s not a coincidence, of course, and the fact that it’s safe and doesn’t lead to dis-
destruction of blood cells, blood transfusion is possible, in general, within the same framework as
successful sexual crossing, i.e., between animals of the same species.

2) Some technical and theoretical considerations for that. same
For example, see “Tectology”, part T, pp. 149-148.
32 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

there is no mutation, the similarity of complexes is not determined by their own communication,
and their relationship to the environment.

The role of the “casting mold”, of course, in different senses and to different extents,
any specific environment can play. Thus, a mammal that passed from
sushi into the water, like a dolphin or whale, acquires many features common to the body
fish; this is the result of the influence of the aquatic environment. She represents, for example, large
mechanical resistance; depending on them, the selection produces
the external shape of the body of these animals, as if according to the model of the body of fish, developed
previously selected by selection in the same environment. In higher vertebrates,
like humans, and in higher mollusks, like octopuses, the structure of the eyes represents
great similarity, despite the complete independence of development of this
organ in both branches of the Tsaretva animal. Here the toe-in was determined
common “optical” medium: adaptation to ethereal waves in known
limits of length. Some species of ants have a herding technique -
properties, and even agriculture, quite similar to human ones: both properties
were capable, although on a different scale, to the animal and plant environment,
as the main material of life's exploitation,

Biological sciences deal at every step with facts of convergence,
There they received the general designation of “analogies”, and are opposed to the phenomena
niyam "homology". For example, egalitarian anatomy recognizes as “homologous”
a human hand, a horse's front leg, a bird's wing, a fish's front fins.
These are organs of homogeneous origin, developed from a common beginning;
but they have lost most of the similarities, thanks to different life
application, therefore different lines of adaptation to the environment;
homology, therefore, expresses the divergence of forms. Similar, on the contrary,
organs that are dissimilar in origin, but have become similar thanks to
similar functions; for example, the same human eye and the eye of an octopus, with their parallel
protective parts, with their sensitive layers of the retina located
in reverse order; or vertebrate skeletal bones and "bone"
cuttlefish; or the wing of a bird, with its skeletal base, and the wing of a butterfly,
originating from a fold of chitinous cover. Seaweed Sachegra presents
giantsforge a cell (up to several inches in size); it can be distinguished
quite clear root, stem and leaves; but these organs, of course, are only’ ana-
are logical to the roots, stems and leaves of higher plants consisting of countless cells
plants. It can also be said that the breeding of aphids by herder ants and
the fungal culture of their American farming relatives is only similar,
but are not homologous to human cattle breeding and agriculture. "Relationship of function"
which explains all analogies in this sense, there is precisely a similar relation-
going to Wednesday; and the same selection mechanism, which along the line of divergence
forms makes their original relationship unrecognizable, can create
reflecting the illusion of such kinship along the lines of convergence.

In the inorganic world, the convergence of forms is no less widespread.
degrees. Thus, all current cosmogonic theories recognize the possibility
completely independent formation of similar world forms, namely, as forms.
balance in the space environment. Saturn with its rings finds a complete external
a similar analogy in some planetary nebulae; and physical experience
The plateau reproduces the same architecture on the rotation of an oil ball in
a mixture of liquids that balances it. Milky Way star cluster,
to which the Sun also belongs, is similar in figure not only in other ways
star clusters, but also with some real nebulae. Atmo-
the sphere of Mars and its polar snows, according to available data, are qualitatively
similar to the Earth's atmosphere with its precipitation. Delayed motion of a rigid body
in the air produces sound waves, the delayed movement of an electron in
ether - electromagnetic vibrations, light or the same type;
both vibrations present great similarities in terms of
mathematical analysis. The structure of the atom, according to modern ones. views,
logical to the structure * of planetary systems, in particular, apparently, that
No. 1596" at PROLETARIAN "CULTURE. 385
ke Saturn. s. ‘him. ‘rings. Such examples. possible. ‘was. would. bring
without end. ^_

In what me, in general. saying, ‘conditions are possibles similar relationship to
environment and the selection action leading to convergence? Of course, and for this it is necessary.
a certain, pre-existing, organized homogeneity of complexes is required:
The more different their organization is, the less likely it is that they are the same. rela-:
going to Wednesday. People and ants could. “to agree” on the development of accessories:
for obtaining food, because both are animals that work collectively:
high; The convergence of ants and termites is even stronger and completely independent. co-:
the architecture of their dwellings, because they are not only homogeneous
socially similar to their type of life, but also closely related. By. structure:
organisms. On Mars and on Earth could have formed, after their cooling,
from a fiery state, an atmosphere similar in many respects,
only because both of these planets were formed from homogeneous MotarIaaVn.
kash children of one ‘nebula. a

True, this structural ‘homogeneity’ in other cases predisposes
very powerful: examples with vibrations generated in the air. body,
molecular 'composition, in the ether with an electron, or with the rings of Saturn, ring-
tsami' of summities in the interstellar medium, and. oil, ring c. liquid
Ilato's environment of experience. But the convergence extends in such cases only
to the ‘general, so to speak, fundamental architectural form, `expressed
music of algebraic or geometric schemes; and the corresponding degree
general structural kinship can exist between the most distant ones.
in other systems: on this, after all, the very possibility is based.
universal-tectological, ‘generalization. s

Such a general tectological convergence can be called “formal in
Let us denote the difference from the deeper one. it as “real”—speak
in our first examples, where we are talking about general systems. proie-
walking, diverging during development: such as fish and aquatic mammals
_nurturers, or Earth and Mare. _

The actual deflection is found. in ‘closer connection with the contra’
differentiation than it appears from the perspectivenew look. Let's look at this
‘connection in such an illustration, Children of different
social classes and groups, different upbringings, abilities, character,
temperament. They leave school with some money already. common' for.
all of them knowledge, acquired beliefs, mental and strong-willed skills. And.
physical. 'Keli' we will compare the two releases, separated. whole.
kureom schools, directly, not in contact, then, a community created between...
them school, will appear as typical. “convergence”: it is the result of “adjustment”
action of the same environment, which is formed by the pedagogical institution of each

its ' environment, teachers, programs, textbooks, customs, etc.
why don’t we take students from the same course, ‘then there will be commonality between them
more, but its origin will already be TWO: For One of her, part-_tanoe.,
the same, ‘as in the previous case, for the other - on the basis of their direct mutual-
communication; i.e., convergence plus contra-differentiation...However; We.
They could make such a distinction only because mentally they completely separated it. educational
niki from the school, and opposed it to them as a “medium”, as something more external:
But it is immediately clear to what extent this is. separation. conditionally, S. complete
the pedagogical process can be considered as a basis for live communication
teachers and the entire institution. falling into, him. youth, i.e., how
conjugation process. What does one side have in this case? another one more
influence than vice versa, this, of course, does not change anything, because conjugations
are not necessarily characterized by the uniformity of mutual changes
both sides; in fact, even such uniformity. never happens. Obviously
that in such a formulation of the question, the entire “convergence” will be reduced to a straight line. O.
jugation of heterogeneous complexes, i.e., to the same contra-differentiation. A
if we then apply this point of view to pupils from different schools

_

Proletarian culture. No. 15-16, 3
84 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. | No. 15-16

cycles, then the following will turn out: successive generations of educatedIkov, although
even if they were not in direct contact, they passed ‘through’ conjugative communication with
the same organization—this institution; it was from here that I purchased
the community of knowledge, skills, etc., acquired by them; others. words, and she.
is due to intra-differentiation, but only indirect. ^

This also applies to any “real” convergence in general. Yes,
The casting process is the conjugation of the molten mass with the casting mold,
their “contra-differentiation”. True, from the chemical side: communication is very important.
weak, disingression and border are quickly formed; however, some, mini-
there is still a small amount of chemical mixing and interaction; and besides,
we must remember that conjugation does not cease to be such when it does not lead
to a positive result, but to a negative one, not to ingression, but to disintegration
greevia. From the side of thermal and electrical activities. conjugation
very ‘complete and contra-differentiation, even’ in the sense of leveling these
activities between ‘two sides’, acts. quite sharply. Regarding
In relation to the spatial form, the mutual influence of both complexes is very
unevenly; but still, here it is mutual, which becomes very noticeable
on the deterioration of the casting mold after a number of repetitions of casting; unevenness.
same' influence. as was said, it does not change the essence of the matter, and that’s all. follow-.
body! quantities of metal passing through the same casting cavity,
“contra-differentiated” with her, thereby. indirectly “contra-difference.”
are torn" between each other:

Likewise, the impact of the aquatic environment on fish. and, dolphin, at-
which has given similar shapes to their body, can be dismantled, . how huge
a series of conjugation processes of these life forms p. homogeneous com-
complexes of activities-resistances of water: tectologically, here, liquid
plays the role of a “casting mold” for living bodies moving in it. _

An interactive ‘illustration of the principle of the casting mold is given by nature
in So-called “pseudomorphoses” of crystals. Among the insoluble wasp-
bottom" mineral rocks" is imbedded insome _ included crystal.
more soluble substance. Water circulating there. little by little
corrodes it and, taking away its substance, deposits some other substance in its place,
which was dissolved in it. After a complete replacement, this is the last
it will appear as if cast in the ‘shape’ of the first crystal, forming a “peudo-
crystal" of a 'completely' alien species. —

In technology, the “reverse casting” technique is widely used.
Typically, the casting mold itself is prepared. according to the model of what should
cast, by `e6 sticking with plastic, hardening, refractory
substance: the same ‘same’ casting into another. practical variety and in other ways.
directions. And it’s curious to what extent they are distant in external character
processes fit into the scheme of this technique, “One only has to indicate
fields of scientific technology, photography and phonograph. Phonographic. get lost
The sounds represent a trace of the sound vibrations of the needle in the plastic mass of the vra-_
"shaking" roller: this is a cast of different ones. consecutive provisions
needles; ‘corresponding to the ‘shape’ made from the model. When I fill the needle
again on this trail, she must again occupy the same positions
tion, 'That is, to reproduce previous tremors, & this means recorded
sounds; here, therefore, the recording plays the role of a casting mold for the movement
needles Princet. photographs are the same, only instead of ‘sound vibrations’
there are others; light, ‘or, more precisely, electromagnetic, & the role of plastic
the material ‘for’ the impression is made by the photosensitive substance of the plate,
decomposing energies of these vibrations.

‚ Human speech and its understanding are built. according to Tin reverse’ differ-
eternal "form, so to speak; in a fluid 'state. The sounds of words' represent,
if we compare it with a phonograph, it’s like a nervous trace embedded in the air.
brain vibrations of one person; this trace immediately reverses
forming a swarm of similar vibrations in another organism.—Tu
„No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 35
PEOYA 87
the same scheme, through all the complications, you canto ravage the willow. any other ‘symbol’
face of writing, art, science. with O |
For reverse casting mold in ‘nature, ‚ illustration. may be
live the pseudomorphism we mentioned. crystals. Here the scheme is complicated
that peculiar feature that, removal. molding, models. goes very:
gradually, & at the same time, its replacement with material occurs.
new casting. More illustration. more interesting is this. reflected on-
“iceness”, when children from the second spouse are similar to the first.
Whatever its mechanism may be in all its concrete complexity, but... him.
the tectological scheme is almost certainly everything. Same, same. Reproductive
the apparatus of the young mother turned out to be sufficiently plastic, “so that, children, from
the first father left some kind of trace in him, a trace. some especially
ness of its structure, According to this imprint then. form to a certain extent
fight, and new children, already from a different father. Perhaps, there is even
a kind of “hardening” of the initially soft form: as is known, with.go-
The body becomes less flexible. eOo ozneeo ea
‚On. We showed a number of examples. that, “everything... “real”
convergence ‘is only an indirect contra-differentiation. Towards "formal"
This doesn't seem to apply to toe-in. 'There. and‚ environment‚” defining
formation may: be completely different, - for example, interstellar, environment. with
on one side, and a mixture of liquids at Plateau—on the other; and ourselves...form-".
the complexes it creates are completely different. origin. “However, there is
similar relationship of complexes to their environment. A. the very possibility of such
similar relation means yuktolonic. unity, forms, how. and their
environment. “oh
H0 where does the tectological unity itself come from? How. ‘further develops
science, the more it becomes clear that it is nothing more than a result,
zenetic unity, which is expressed in it, from its origin, only more
distant. She unfolds. to.the whole world. experience available to us; and then
the most formal convergence of itsleads only to more indirect action.
body convergence.

„
AE

UI. Question (1 lifeless roaster

It is no coincidence that almost all of those examples are where we are at the very beginning.
‘the works illustrated the possibility of universality. organizational forms and
horses; a,. Consequently, tectology, as a science, belonged to the area
facts of convergence. Every complex is contained in its environment at the same time and
as a casting material and as a molding material. model defining this environment
I milk in the first sense and partially determining it in. second. And every ‘re-
regularity of forms, and, consequently, any observable pattern is “basically”
ultimately appears at some convergence.

Therefore, his scheme must first of all guide us, ‘when
it is necessary to explain the still incomprehensible and mysterious repetition of facts. for-
consistency. Among those, one of the closest to us, Ko
resnyh - life assimilation.

A living organism is characterized as a machine that not only itself
regulates itself, but also repairs itself. As the elements
body tissues wear out, he replaces them with material, E) taken away. from
environment and “assimilated, i.e., reduced to chemical
the composition of these same tissues, “Dead” matter taken from outside, protoplasm
transforms into its living matter, not just any matter at all, but quite definite
divided, chemically identical with the molecules of this name of protoplasm.
Meanwhile; Of the hundreds of thousands of species of plants and animals, each one is different -
with its special chemistry, “different, composition of proteins than all others, - and ‘pro-
In the process of its assimilation, it forms precisely these proteins, from the same’ nutritional
material from which other species form other proteins. V. this and
lies the main mystery.

- `-3*
36. _ PROLETARIAN CULTURE M5

If the food for the body is foreign proteins received from the outside, -
for example, when a person eats the meat of other animals or fruits, stems, roots.
plants, then the organism first, at. digested”, “destroys” these proteins,
decomposing? them on’ the vows’parts, various amido-clelotes 1. Then in tissues
from amido acids he recreates his own. combinations, your own.
specific protein substances. Ciao’ concerns plants, ' then the majority
from them themselves’ form, ‘first, carbohydrates, and then amido acids, ‘from carbon
acids of air and water. soils with vegetable oils and acids.

So, why is the “different material” obtained by living ‘protoplasm,
molded under its action into specific forms. her. ‘own composition?
Narr., why amyl acids are destroyed. proteins. our food. from. ‘numbers
millions of possible combinations fit precisely into those that are
Are they specific to the proteins of our body? New. ‚ materials in various sizes
changing proportions ‘add up, %. old, ‘composition; why not pro-

comes from what ‘happens to everyone. ‘directly. mixing: ‘contra-different-. |
tion, i.e.) Changes of this composition to ‘different, So. say, Prominent
between the old composition and new Materials? *

'There is' 'the same exact' movie-Predator, called 'azcineta.'
She attaches it to some ciliate, and so on. ‘to the corresponding tubes B,
draws in 3 ©6byya’ plasma; which directly ‘flows into the plasma. Predators and daredevils
hangs out with ‘her;’ But if this had been a misunderstanding, then, obviously,
the composition of acineta would be deprived of any ‘stability: every’ time. ‘she has transformed
would have turned into something ‘between’ the former acaneta and the sucked-out ‘victim.—.
The same is our food, although n8 so ‘quickly, but no less radically and
If only we understood our composition, in order to avoid this, it is necessary to accept that
in our body, as well as in the body. acinetes coming to the mother
rials are passing. through' some kind of casting mold, 'from where, `mo-
can only be released in the form of compounds specific to a given organism.

lady

How to find this casting. ‘form? “a

Here We will have to enter. two ‘Quite 1 simple. ortanitation 1
nyatiya. The first ‘of them webma’ is usually: “regulator” This is suitable |
which serves tohold some `process _ "a
at a certain level. For example, machines often have a speed controller
progress. Will it be set, let’s say, at 1000 revolutions of the flywheel. in mi-
nuzu, etc. ‘at any transition. 'speed' through : this level it 'slows down 'Move-,
living; 3. when, having adjusted, the speed’ does not reach this value, he. works.
accelerating. ‘in a manner; ‘menebv. { ‘perfect regulators operate. Tolno,
one way, for example." at. steam Excessive pressure is not allowed in the boiler.
a burst of steam that could call ‘evo. It is clear that the regulator is one of the
varieties of “edited form” in our sense of the word: “with the help, oh
causes the descent of different phases of a given process.
size. ‚

` The second concept is derived from the first; but the layer of the sky, “bireilya” i.e.,
“double ‘regulator’. `This is a ‘nomination in which. two complexes.
mutually regulate" each other. For example, in a steam engine, maybe
It is designed in such a way that the speed and steam pressure mutually regulate. friend
friend: if the pressure rises above the proper level, it increases
and speed, ‘And the mechanism dependent on it is then sea pressure, and
back. In nature, biregulators are often found; ‘an example, at least
the familiar water-ice equilibrium system at 0% C. If the water is “heated”
is above zero, then the one in contact with it: the ice absorbs excess heat,
absorbing it during its melting; if cooling occurs, some of the water is
freezes, releasing heat, which does not allow the temperature of the ice to drop
below zero. In public, Ortho ‘biregulator is very common
in the form of systems of “mutual control” of persons etc. institutions, IR: CH.

A viregulator is a system that does not require a regulator.
from the outside, because it regulates itself. And, ‘obviously, if alive

L 15216 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 7 97

protoplasm turned out to be zymic. ‘bi-regulator, tm ‘the most ‚if only
it is explained why materials flowing into it cannot change the weight
standing, and laying them downfit into its framework, . and

From food proteins, their structural elements, amido-kiols, are obtained,
which then enter the tissue. ‘organism. Structure. these. colloidal fabrics
distant: liquid’ with harder solids “dispersed” in it (“dispersed”)
particles. Liquid “This is water, with salts dissolved in it, their “ions”
and other crystalloid substances, as well as basins, “Scattered” parts
fathers—molecules: proteins. Each of them is a bulky chemical complex,
of which ‘atomic weight is measured. ‘usually in the thousands, vireniyartsya
like an island in this liquid. . E

Despite its very complex nature. structure, ‘protein molecules are very, ‘fragile:
their decomposition, as well as the formation from amido acids, occurs very easily,
with little energy consumption, . or with release. minor
‘its’‘‘quantities. It's obvious that. between. `them and their liquid environment should
exist certain. structural. compliance guaranteeing them
strength, - i.e.; that dvVv these parts form, “snetels,” “equilibrium,” “how.
5water and ice form at ‘09; sli ‘such. Equilibrium. exists. For; squirrel
given composition’ and structure, then for its other proteins, generally speaking, in this
environment’shouldn’t exist, and when they get into it, their molecules undergo decomposition
changes and regroupings of their elements.

Particles of amido acids of digested food enter the same environment.
They are in solution and, naturally, come into contact with each other.

. nia. Agreed, we looked at the time-space (‘theoretical chemistry, at’ such a ‘meeting
''elements and structures, all possible combinations should be obtained, only
with, different speed of reaction; moreover, with different stability _ its re-
results. Unstable› combinations ‘tu! they disintegrate, the negative ones are eliminated
careful selection; only strong, stable ones are held. A are stable
in this environment, as we’already’ know, only those; ‘which correspond to the composition
‚ her, cash. protein molecules. But this also means that those admitted
acids are “assimilated”, groupare found in the same and not different proteins

From this point of view, it is clear why all protoplasm comes from
every food has its own proteins; and ‘it’s clear how ‘in a highly differential

In a transplanted organism, each of its various tissues reproduces
“its worn-out protoplasmic elements, and grows, remaining the same
same in composition.

But if (a living protein ‘environment’ exists) “Certain system of ‘equilibrium’,
in: in which the composition of proteins is regulated by the composition of the dispersed liquid, liquid
it must be assumed that the composition of this liquid, in turn, is regulated
by them; i.e.:; ‘what’ is in front of us: bi-regulator: With great ease of decay and
‚reunification, ‘protein molecules,’ indeed, there should be . bable

‘regulate’ the composition of the liquid; for example, in case of loss in. her. dissolved. emido-

acids! below the ‘normal’ amount directly. replenish their va account. his
decay. The same. amido acids ‘can. ‘serve’ for ‘binding, any
inorganic ions in excess, and for their release, when. their not-
prosperity; and w

C; on the other hand, it is necessary Ibn that “the adjacent tNani of the body, ‘is undeniable
inno; “form” systems of “equilibrium”, `mutually regulated, ‚by
diffusion of liquids and dissolved ones. substances.

The dual structure of colloids “in general” contains the “conditions
suitable for two-way regulation. Highly likely
what’ exactly’ is the basis for the inextricable connection of life processes
with a colloidal structure of matter.

“Our construction, of course, is a hypothesis; but, 'it's easy to see that
Is this a “working” hypothesis? e., outlining the path of research, the path of its practice
verification: Without ‘preliminary constructions of this type of research
nothing can move forward, but would only stagnate in the increasing
98 I I No. 19—16

a pile of facts. Further research confirms or, VAVT forge
’ hypothesis, or leads to it. ‘modification.
E 99 For tectology, any such ‘construction’ is a ‘solution’. tasks—
Organize cash in a charming wayyya. `S. by adding. no new data
unifying it "in this decision, special science rejects or redistributes -
wat `6th; But ‘for tectology, for collecting organizational experience. and you-
‘working on organizational methods, it can then. save. yours. meaning
‘nie; because’ it helps” to learn the solution. organizational tasks in general.
'So; ‘if’ our ‘understanding’ of the assimilation mechanism turned out to be incorrect,
or ‘insufficient’, ‘his’main’ idea, the idea of the bi-regulator, her’ applications
in mebretic ‘research, as well. and r: “practical.” constructions, -
would not lose its tectological suitability from this. Yves: stories
science’ has been found for a long time. obsolete. theories - and hypotheses, which, however,
"may still `spoil the 'valuable'" tectological. material. In this meaning
“tectology” will preserve and ‘save for mankind a lot of its... labor, crystal-
‘lized in the `truths * of the past. There is no doubt that. and current ones. metins
they will live and die in their own time; ‘but tectology guarantees us THAT, even
then they will not simply be discarded, not among the rarity of people. I will-
# food in naked bronzhodnyo Misconceptions. |

SA. Bogdanoe.

at

To the question about. beta and. Character: works of Proletkult.

For two. years, their work Proletkults: not only the widespread development of their
propaganda, but also put forward, whole. shot of enthusiastic workers, ‘wonderful
` versed in. questions. proletarian. cultures seeking new me and
methods. in resolving the problems facing Prolegult,

And naturally, at the congress of the All-Russian Council of Prontkuzt
voiros, ‘about volume, and parvatera rRoei called, ide. and hot
CHN,

‘These. ‘debate and force ‘us, ‘vocalized several: ‘ooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

honeycomb question... and with pvieya oman m

Proletcults are culturally creative organizations: of the proletariat, they are
‘laboratories in which it collects and produces. svom. cultural: tseya-
It is the cornerstone of the future, wonderful life. atezlakoy

Proletkults: “laboratories.” So, this is what they create,
deputyinside their walls, not hearing and not seeing what. doing 'round for
the walls of these sets of rooms?. Of course not. If. so creative went away Bni- ^
'"chebzhvo" was impossible even for the bourgeois. to the scientist who
scientific works. ‘was forced to maintain intensive. connection 5 world
science,” that’s absolutely impossible, for Proletkult. Q: unmitigated
the values of the new ‘culture. What is culture? This is a war with her
material and ideological achievements; separate! its elements
they are miraculously intertwined with each other, which is “often, even unthinkable: without” -
it is natural to separate them from each other. ‘friend. And naturally, Shroletkuty in
their creativity equally penetrate into. everything, but construction, new
life. ` under Fntvlohkhoi

''Organization of `arodnoko' 'economy with, › all. 'its 'distribution functions
nnem, ‘transport, build: by air, etc. are deeply of interest to yours
‚ workers; issues of justice, which, 3. specifically for the purposes of law and order
"regulates human. roots; Urban construction, new shafts
° ideas and plans, formulation and education systems, Labor Army) Kura s-
‘naya army... “In a word, all Life, all everyday life must always lie before *o-
No. 15-16 a CULTURE. ‚99
knowledge of our ‘worker, and not be a chaotic, scattered -state-
research, & in an organized manner, so that the outline of the palace under construction, the new
life, so that not only his plan can be seen, but also the very fulfillment of the plan,
so that it is clearly recognized which stone is fitted and. put to. ‚place,
durable, and which one should be moved. or even throw it away completely,

This is such a huge task. breeds Ria

Yes, the task is enormous. u.

And so, all aspects of life, which and. Not. ow we must
thoroughly study? wow
“Yes, we must UNDERSTAND and comprehend them, and within certain limits study:

study not in their details and minutiae, & ‚in methods. construction, (so that later,
if these methods. construction will be heterogeneous. and contradictory
find a single mu- constructionva, which should form the basis of creative
in the field of science and art, as well as everyday life, like in the new
economic base.,

But before. until now `Proletkults concentrate their activities,
mainly on art, on itera tu ro tvatra, music, painting and
etc. and partly science. So they're wrong?

"Not at all. Science, and art, is a generalization of the social experience of his
destroyers, and in turn they serve the further organization of society.
But for this experience to be organized correctly and express exactly the relationships
knowledge of the various elements of life, one must understand life in all its manifestations,

You need to look closely at all its sides. |

We. we anticipate the reader’s questioning glance, “yes, can everyone
` the employee allows the delivered. task? yy
`Of course not. 'This task is beyond the power of an individual; “Proletkults
therefore. always and everywhere they put forward the method of collective work, collective
creativity. And ‘this’ gives them the opportunity to always support
to create the most living connection with others. Soviet institutions, arranging,
for example, to discuss individual problems, hold joint meetings with them.

The People's Commissariat of Labor, as far as we know, is developing

plans for workers' camps. This is closely related to issues of not only convenience,
but also beauty, art, in particular architecture. Isn't this question
Are you interested in Proletkult? And shouldn't we criticize their projects,
What are they taking from bourgeois workers' homes in New Zealand? |

The issue of the punishability and non-punishability of abortion is being discussed. And this one
question’ ‚is of interest to us, since it enters in a certain way
in the new being ‘determines. woman's relationship to society as a whole. And a lot
other questions." x .e

And only in the ‘case’ when we will. hug, 'all my life, we
“We can” quickly and “easier” to IDENTIFY and unite. ‚elements. a

Uri he

about “When ‘we’ talk” about the creative” character of your work K: With a little $
ve ‘means; that "we ^ are going to invent something while sitting... yourself in. Awe will extract it out of our fingers, or squeeze it out of our brain. Create it
means organizing living reality, and in order to unite it, it is necessary
know the 66 ‘component elements, understand the mechanism of their ANAS, and transform-
oniya “in all” more “perfect forms...

‚) Every worker of the Proletkult” Zabtitsa era named after the new
social experience ‘brings to the meeting of leaders and students, so that
figure it out, generalize it, and with collective _ ‘forces’ overcome
difficulties” in its “processing.. and

'How about we start this' Brandious work? ,

The informative ‘proivtariat must’ do everything. thoughtfully and organized
bath; ‘It’s important that in’ our ‘work there must be some kind of plan more
or less slender, since modern ones allow us to develop one.
conditions. “Every Proletkult should not be allowed to do” what he wants

in

°
240 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. L Yu—16

\ K.t ^^

at will. The work must be consistent. We must get away from

stage to this stage, and move on to 'further' construction no earlier than

the previous task has been thoroughly worked out and completed. Nobody but will
‘build a building from the roof, & first the foundation. And. will bring out the walls.
This is what we should do too.

If at this moment we fell into groundless ‘fantasies about
construction of garden cities with the development of detailed ilnov ‘Nnoshchadey,
streets, parks, with each street representing itself in art
in relation to the hormonally “whole”, both from the “architectural” point of view, and
liveliness, and sayings, and even music, and so that this ‘unity’ expresses

‘the beauty of the life to come, then one would have to say: . premature, although
‘interesting. There is still a lot of work to be done in certain areas, there

’ pulse. proletarian worldview, etc. world relations, and then ‘already com-
bin them. It is under no circumstances permissible to run ahead without taking into account
and without understanding the current one, especially in practical work. ‘

All this is true, but please tell me more specifically which side of life
start our work? Will wewe study, first, ‘economy, then justice-
tion ‘etc.,’ or something else? _

This is where the most wrong thing is. posing a question. EN ‘we want. to the music, to give

proletarian character, Is it necessary to be familiar with the construction of an economic

stva, and in particular industrial enterprises?. Undoubtedly; 'production-
natural process, the work of machines to a certain extent will” determine Rome

' piece of music.” Is it possible to bring legal cases here?

Yes, it's possible. They reveal the psychology of various clashes in
society, they convey the rhythm and intensity and color of ‘humanity’

; psychological psychology, they often reveal the collective essence of a particular

another group - won’t the composer find elements of his creative work here?

` quality? And won’t these elements help him resolve the issue of speed?
`and the intensity of expression of certain experiences?

It is necessary to approach ‘in every work’ ‘all aspects of life, but take

з ‘out of them 10, which is directly related, In certain a

tional tasks,

{

I.

From previous ideas, in agreement with the entire direction, works: Pro-
letkult, it is clear that in our studios we are engaged in work exclusively
‚creative. Otherwise. Our Task is not to educate the broad workers, the masses, but
‘in nurturing in them ‘independent activity, so that through this ‘your activity’
In this case, the prolbetariat could reveal its spiritual essence, the OZVrA will become
the essence of socialist culture.

This side of the work requires enormous ‘tension,’ Russian
the proletariat, for the most part, stands at a rather low level
cultural development, and in setting up his own, he asked Proletkults to often
I face this backwardness ‘and even put off my plans.

how to be here? Shouldn't we do some work? part of the usual
"Cultural and educational work? By no means. We fully understand
`the tragedy that our workers are experiencing. But we don't. must one
replace the job with another, we should not slide. along the line of leastresistance. Our work and organization are valuable. insofar as they
are able to overcome obstacles and discover new things. Otherwise there's no point
Proletkults. We must educate people with new views. all
life, and then send them to Soviet institutions. to replace those that
they work there out of fear, but not out of conscience, and even with their own. integrity
cannot throw off the clothes of the old Adam and feel the beauty of the new
"life and surrender to its creativity with deep self-forgetfulness. And purely, enlightening
telno` work we. it is used equally insofar as it is not separable
from creative work.
No. 15-16 “PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. 41

The worker expresses his emotional unrest and the joys of the collective: the builder
wants to convey in sounds, we give it to him. appropriate. situation and
purely educational, “indications” of what: harmony of sounds is; how is she
allowed. How an artist-carpenter cannot create ‹artistic furniture
without the ability to own. with a slasher and a chisel, a sculptor cannot do a good job
work if he. no. get acquainted with the mass he is working on; and with
those instruments” that. necessary in work:But) this means |that we
must begin to organize the country’s broad workforce. schools
sculpture, music, painting, etc.: Moreover, of course, it’s no longer our business
One way or another fit into the so-called: extracurricular education 1).
Fight with. illiteracy, develop a library network 1st century. tetranes
etc., it is undoubtedly a tempting job; but she, as everyone understands,
not ours. In every face in that ‹chiele and. well there is. ani
labor.

Consequently, we repeat, in our creative work YOU are the enlightener
Creative work is allowed because it is inseparable: from creative work.
It is clear, for example, that. if a communist gets into the studio, we owe him
raise a communist, otherwise he won’t be able to” ‚reveal: new: essence of life
even with his talent. And the “kure of lectures” is common to everyone
not to any extent. contrary to ‘with’ chieto: yoursmanual work:

Intensely and always insisting on sleep in purely creative work and directly
among. proletariat, industrial ‘primarily; Proletkult and
must take a position outside of their ‘studios:

All your achievements. he brings to the broad proletariat masses, firstly
queue. to the urban poor; then to the peasantry, introducing them to the oct-spirits
to the new world of the proletariat; carries. directly” himself and through other “organizations”
tions; Communist Party, through professional “Unions, Departments
Public Education: etc. As creative forces accumulate. rows
aroletariat, Shroletkults should help other institutions to displace

“Vserabisy” s. their futurism;, bourgeois-philistine repertoire, with pro-
behavior of form, damage to content. etc. who even sing! uInter-
national“, but. sow.. bourgeois: rotten about a. ‘also’ help leave and
any other work.

Work, so to speak, consumer distribution work; Proletkult
performs. by parcel. various of their studios’ on: front; where are they decided? fate

"Soviet Russia: m'new culture, and other places for"propaganda;
ations. “different weeks,” “staging performances,” etc. evenings proletarian-
Russian creativity, here’Ireletkult shows! yours: achievements; and if they
valuable, let them feed on them: all of them: must ‘pass on to others; (to enter

into life already in a planned" state way. The Proletkults themselves

Let them return again to their purity. creative work.

‚ with Vmiirok. communication: with the masses and the institutions of Proletkulti and black-
"Vuton. forces; will find. 'new: elements dreams a) the main thing experienced from
Life: the value of your achievements. o"

Proletkulto creates with the power of the proletarian masses, social culture
“experience” using “flying” methods, but “it does not excite” oneself and does not last for oneself,
& for all the “general indifference” that makes up “him!

It is necessary to be in the same contact with the labor masses and organizations in order to
they felt the need for us and tried to use us, but not at all
notdisrupting our core creative work.

“We: live | in such a time: every institution “walks like a lion”
roaring, looking for someone to devour.”^I. when we talk about contact with others and
about: intensive use of nae; then that’ of course;’ doesn’t mean. what are we on
bite the bullet: everyone who has fallen ill will receive one m1 sound $ 9

8 5

1) This archaic terlet, ‘Finally, Eliminates: Externally dressed on Nar. Com.
Nroevguzhe was transformed into Political Education: Department... gr
|
|

|

42 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. No. 1516

The most serious attention should be paid to the organization and work
factory-factory 'proletkults', which forms the foundation of our building, through
which! we involve the masses in our work and excite YOU in it
knowledge, developing it ‘as’ participation in ‘works of a higher order.

`Otherwise'. In this case, we are in danger of becoming grown-up
schools, communities 60with their own methods of work; not only by ‘developing’ the amateur-
ity of the ‘proletariat’; how much from him'' and o. NK them they are. These are:
sad outcome: 6:10 2

“When, as a counterbalance to the tone of dissolution of work, we put forward and
we defend the trend of deepening work; then we, of course, don’t want this
narrow the field of our activity; we do not refuse and cannot refuse
From the growth of our organizations, we strive to ‘deliver work’ even. in inter-
„national scale; - we just don’t want to put forward in a long time
fundamentally new types of work.

We know “that places ‘don’t ‘always cope with our work and’ reject
The yuts are starting to stray. her; This phenomenon: will intensify even more significantly when
types of work. 'especially. V. ‘side’ of least resistance, ‘towards’ side
purely educational: 'This' phenomenon' will be observed 'until'
We will create a 'sustainable' frame of 'proletcultural centuries'. workers. Those
which we ‘already have,’ to a ‘significant extent’: parts ‘are scattered in ‘Krabnaya
army, in the Party, in. Trade Unions, despair in the Departments of the People
education, - and; to oh no’ eo they’re on 9
work. ©

Serious attention. we. dolzhny VbBvoana ina’ raruby KNIFE
Cultures. They do not need to be mixed with the commonly used types
| workers' clubs, the Shroletkult Club is a laboratory of everyday life. 'Mooring 'place-
tion, good, device ‘I. ‹convenience, pp. ’decoration, _ wonderful
equipped. library and reading room, interesting summer evenings,
concerts; ‘discussions, ‚information. bureau; quickly ‘and accurately’ giving”
all questions. information, - all this is not the final “ideal of ‘our’ club. ‘Ezho’one
side, club life, small. Ideal: ‘club’ will be ‘lord’s, kbgda’on
will be able to communicate communicatively. educate and ‘not only! in awe,
but also in all life relationships.

but for the club no doubt; ‘one analysis of the most complex and challenging laboratories,
“Let them be few, but: let these’ few ‘clubs-=laboratories’ of the new
life -= uniting: the achievements of the studios, like an oasis in the desert, beckoned the bull
‘yourself, would serve’ as a subject of imitation and not: so much! her slenderness

organization, ‘how close to such an internal one’ ‘etro-club

life, which is in its development. brought up. would be: a person ‘in’ whom is high
the appearance of a communist can be seen. dazke’ without. party book.

`Involving the proletarian masses in work Through rkoriioaN-V AR
letcults (and organizing their ideology. and psyche, in: clubs-laboratories, we
must: concentrate efforts on. formation." quantitatively" strong

a cadre of workers from the workers whom the Iometa center could have disposed of,

first of all for deepening, work, and then already''iodia'expansion, in
not in the direction of least ‘resistance, aw’. side of the production “more
complex problems of shadows and creativity; ov |: t but
not emo, dov bam Nonodfa% main and b

‚ak ki

Tin, Proletkulty ‹ ve. ‘The army must grow! of his work in Foron
purely ‘cultural and educational’; this one. wave. ‘us and: so the ten-
‘the tendency to rush into. ‘these waves are very frightening: they can’ especially ‘in’ places,
all. work. imperceptibly, gradually, reduce. to 'enlightenment', which is 'distortion'it
the appearance of our organization and even depersonalize it:

Expansion is possible only in purely creative work, dulsi; then 'in
`in the sense of deepening the work begun, and not in the sense of new.tasks, frae-
No. 1152-16 ' PROLETARIAN CULTURE. | a

for ten years, when living conditions will radically change, and
ours. premature "work" will go ‘to’ the Emark.' But “in” expansion
‘work, in’ ours: it is not “logical” and “consistent”
activity, ›: k. y

If anyone tried to blame us for the lack of revolutionary
impulse. and'the courage of creativity; we will notice that not every project covered
ty revolutionary. a phrase, at least a bold and bold one. there is action
A truly revolutionary project in its own internal existence. Prejudging
prospects for the future’ and’ on’ them ‘building’ her ‘cultural and creative political
tic, we must firmly remember that to move through the “inevitable” sources
ric stages we have no strength.

But we have the strength to avoid the inclined plane and persist.
I howl. creative work; guided by ‘sound revolutionary tics, &
not fantastic projects of a ‘chaotic’ structure: ‘

Let us not, comrades, get carried away with hasty grandiose plans,
‘as long as’ there is no ‘strong’ theoretical ‘definition’ behind them. vea
› Ideological? ‘deepening, slender. t aaa ‚shvirokaya’ ‚proiztanda, and
meh - that’s the task of the day.
- 'Q: 'Nunavin. ^

at

_Sadlastoyestvennost› or “In: bourgeois rutav:
ABOUT ME CULTURE:.

In the middle of May in In “it was supposed to wrap around the congress” of the proletarian
Russian writers and poets; convened by a 'private group. Since in the device
Congress, as he admitted, there were many organizational shortcomings, and

The Organizing Bureau of the Congress has become! in ‘opposition to the All-Russian’ Prolet-
cult, in fact there was an exodus of non-irole writers, & thieves in general
from the people. And this forced the poets,” grouping them around “proletcults,
in the spirit of the Tietrograde ‘and’ Tambov comrades, ‘to force the Organiza-
tion Bureau to recognize the proposed congress as unauthorized ‘and’ the announcementreveal
its meeting, & the congress itself, according to the resolution of the 1st meeting of the pro-

`Opetarek writers’ and the 1st All-Russian Conference of Proletkults, co-

vals together with Ts, K. Proletkult on September 20, sha’ what number V.
‘ioannounced. Congress of proletarian writers and poets. “““

Of the 116 members of the meeting of communes, it turned out that there were only $4 people, and
this: the composition gave the opportunity to individual ‘poets and even from workers’ not only
identify your partly syndicalized, partly ungenerated ‘labor point’
view, but’and’to captivate those who, in addition to bare phrases about. proletarian culture
communism’ ‘didn’t learn anything’ and ‘even’ until’ this’ moment” couldn’t stink,
that there is a deep ‘difference between’ the attitude of the proletarian and the peasant.

‚iat This was mostly related to the discussion of organizational issues, and
in particular in the issue of the ideological connection of the future trade union
proletarian writers and poets © proletkults. 'Professionally-cindy-
Calist tendencies were discovered primarily by the Organizational Bureau itself.

it ‘his closest like-minded people passionately defended that point
view that ‘proletarian writers and’ poets are the salt’ and ‘the flower of the proletarian
culture; ‘what they are: inspired leaders and ideologists of the proletariat, that

‘they are the most important in’ the process’ of creating proletarian culture, and all the ‘rest
we know that proletarian artists, musicians and artists should
mother of the “divine” tlagols “poets” and follow them, especially since
they are, according to some statements, boastful, arrogant and narcissistic
poets have already surpassed bourgeois poets. If so, then it is natural that pro-
fessional 'union' of 'irolegarek 'writers and norts' in the 'ideological ra-
Bothe`must exist independently ‘from the proletkults; for the proletarians

Av
44 ‹IROLETARIAN` CULTURE, (No. 1516

writers, even resolutions of all-Russian congresses are not obligatory: Prolet-
‚cults; on the contrary; proletarian ‘writers! and poets. must dictate to her
will. everything. spancult, like. people of the highest category; ‘proletkults’
only restrict their freedom of creativity, why do some of them!' leave
proletkult, uniting with imagists and futurists in bourgeois speculative
poets' cafe, where, citizen. Yesenin. makes scandals; &‘pisa-
The bodies of the workers are painted. on the ‘walls in gold chains, with wreaths and
palm trees branches.

Let's try VAZVORYYeya < c. this chaos. petty-burkuzan and syndicalist
“thoughts and moods.

18

Proletarian. writers and poets are ideologists. and 'leaders of the 'working' class,
and others. they listen to them and follow them;

Yes, and. this?

First of all. here lies the old bourgeois point of view on the role
tsisatela. and poet in: ‘society. V. bourgeois society: writer; expressing
the ideals and hopes of one or another social group always stand’ higher
this group; he is a prophet, he is a leader, and those around him are a crowd, a mob, listening
This is revelation. In the minds of the bourgeois crowd, the poet is the highest being,
endowed by God, by nature with special qualities, and give him a soul-
supreme power over the masses.

Chroletariat! can’t look at our (poets) with such) Flaz. Poets

ego brothers who came from the working environment and are blood related to it, outside of
then they wither and die, like flowers ‘without’ moisture. The proletariat not only gives
its content. and’its own “form” for: verbal images, but precisely indicating
tells the poet and “the path of his creativity, so that he does not get lost: from his own: path and,
‘fascinated by the old culture, no. called, in, her. confusion.. Port ‚not) leader,
’ and an exponent. those moods that swarm in the mind and heart: the worker: And ‘by-
as far as he succeeds. to that extent. he. maybe. to be an inspirer, unite
supporting the broad proletarian strata in building a new life. about:

But also in this process. poets have a non-exclusive role
some proudly stated at the meeting.

Proletariat! organizes. your communist life’ through
science and art. Science organizes social experience in various theoretical
ories and diagrams, and art is abouttimes At the same time, art plays in some.

prevailing in relationships, but in others. subordinate 'role-and, even ‹secondary-
‹powerful. . All sorts of things. art, feeds largely, to a certain extent,
nom. In this way and in identifying one’s images, it is verified by consciousness, -y^proie- .
Tarski artist's class consciousness. well-mannered. on 'Marxism; on
principles of historical materialism. In the absence of class consciousness
artistic images may turn out to be contrary to the entire worldview
nium of the proletariat. Scientific control. over-mocusism ‘inevitable; Already one
that's enough to stop. claim: poets for yokavanika t
role and not find yourself in the position of a dwarf with a Monomakh shank on your head.
Where the masses are broad, they are not able to master scientific knowledge. think, always" more
go less: abstract, art comes to the fore; its images
was perceived. easier than scientific ones. schemes. But... as the first ‘perceived
Maoteya by instinct, “usually, they are unstable, “until they gain a foothold: in
consciousness in the form of certain ideas, Therefore, we spread propaganda among
few conscious elements always begin. through revolutionary poetry
and fiction, rising from this. first. steps c. highest, to ment
Marxism, both economic and sociological. systems.
This, too, should moderate the proud ardor of some poets...
r Moreover, art reveals it only. in poetry, but also in music,
_tevtra,.in painting, sculpture, etc. I. all these types. art equally
are valuable to the proletariat, they are equally, organize the proletariat, inspiring
No. 15—16'. PROLETARIAN'KYUUL TURA. 2 1149

him in the struggle: and construction. And: often the poet’s song has a meaning

so much, since it is chanted, since the verbal’ images are rearranged

into sound harmonies; and the play is often ‘dead, ‘yet’ ok but ‘hier-
they will give it verbally. images in live exciting action:

$4

"Is it possible, therefore; the poet ‘EK aaena’ before his childhood and in her

give you some kind of special role? about 4x‚H

We, after all, were the first to appear on the stage, they say, flying by

artists, musicians! and there are no artists; ‘This’ is incorrect and self-deception: Here/dream-”

called myopia. There are proletarians: and ‘artists’; ‘and ‘musicians and
artists. But’ they are not’ visible; \Dv, ‘not’ visible, - but’ this’ does not’ mean that they

no; We need to understand why they are not visible. Firstly; there are fewer of them; because'.

due to: certain conditions, literature “always and everywhere” appears” before

other forms of art, but this still does not give the right to permanent capture

main role: leaf, always appears before the flower from which it is formed
the fruit, but not the leaf, is the most important thing, and the first leaves, as you know? die, &
excessive: leaf development Bev ‘often harms’ the fullness of the fruit: Secondly,
convey your “mood” in verbal images, often far from “perfectly”

and imitatively; it is much easier for the proletariat; than in lines, colors. PS
sounds It is easier to convey in verse the proletarian sentiments of nature than

convey the color of neon to the canvas in colors and lines. Thirdly, print

tarskaya: call; especially. 'Now; much easier; ‘than’ proletarian wartin.
and musical works; ‘It’s not appropriate to talk about proletarian sculpture’

walks; that's all. it 'is. Fourthly, ‘if’ in ‘noesia’ reveals more of that

content than in other forms of art, then I must say that I’ll conceive”

this is determined by the fact that instead of one eating her

bathroom proclamation. .:

And here I want ‘poets: to introduce: ©’ Aunt’s advice to the young! po-_

F. Engels, oAA, at the age of 18, knew this “so well”

“Let every young man know:
"Rime, where the spirit and mind are high,
The muse only accompanies
“But it doesn’t lead them forward.”

In a word, everything: he says, however, that in the creativity of Troletarian culture everything
the figures are of equal value and ‘all’ of them must stand ‘in’ their ‘place’; ‘not’ boasting, not

putting your chest forward, and moving in “one” enclosed battalion!” friendly n.

_ a comradely ‘team, in which: all are leaders’ and ‘builders’. `Iretendo-
to assume an exclusive role means to reveal the philistine and adivistic
dualism, at least professionally group: We must remember; what’ part
always ‘there are parts and’ less than ‘one’s own. the whole. And, ‚waa rade: she’ dies, kan
branch broken off from a tree
Unfortunately, some workers could not understand this. Profvs-
the national-indicalist scent prevented them from expanding their howl: horizon and beyond.
look beyond' your fence: 4

In 1848, the Wower brothers; fall in rr ‚Weee general el.

literary newspaper"; imagine yourself to be 'embodied' 'critics will circulate -
a new spirit, which consciously emits the roar of the world’s spirit through them,
contrasting ‘these with the rest of humanity.’ Obviously, laurels Byau: roses!
also attract some poets from among the workers: But let them know that Marx and
Engels cruelly attacked the Bzuer brothers in his book “The Holy Family.”

Kotatiurta book ‘has recently been published by the State Publisher’
stva; and other poets; "Vitayun" in the mists of osmovilovnosti chi: illiterate
readability is very 34 ‘useless,

9 Aug

Professional 'union. proletarian writers ‘and poets’ cannot be counted
deal with the All-Russian, Proletkult ‘neither in the center nor’ locally; 5tb st6-
in... PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 636:

"understands poetic creativity" in the ›levels of most of the world's poets

and even in general, not artists. ChoaYa:
No more. philistine thought than, This" } | E g aa
Proletkults: strictly. But they are proletarian organizations. work' 'on

construction. proletarian. culture in all its volume; and not, in: any

d

separate part. Here everything must be coordinated and united in a strict and.

natural. labor harmony. team, v. which. poet, artist,
a weaver and a member of the Labor Army, equally. create. ke culture.
And suddenly Proletkults constrain creativity;

Here some “poets are like talkers. capercaillie, ‘before that. was forgotten and
get carried away. yours. role that. don’t even notice the danger to themselves, ‘don’t feel
they act like they are cutting down. the one on whichm: sitat! Let these poets know that
P child cults. they can. live. without them, and without them there are no PTropetcults; extra-cultural

creative army of the proletariat, they will perish. V. fetters of the Vryusovs, Balmontovs.

Shershenevich. And. so-called and they are already beginning to die, as, for example, no. Perasi-

mov. If the atroletarian poets are afraid that “Proletkults” will restrict their freedom:
creativity, which means...they are afraid of their own influence. class, then it’s “in vain”!

in love with them; it means they don’t have F’eren of all the Sozh that they will withstand this
the lining up army of proletarian culture.

We. Let's rely on! Proletkult, but we will be independent: We.
we will. work.in.studios, Proletkult, drawing C lines there.

planned. V. Nodrakh svbego trade union")

Here.this- and, there is solarevaM and here. this is a craft workshop, oh
Kalism, a.o.

The syndicalists demand that the V. sopiapist society enterprises
were given away. V. order of the trade unions, not the central
a state body that would regulate its socialization. ho-
farming Marxists “long ago smashed. this. relic of the ‘old.’ ideology, and
suddenly he swam out completely unexpectedly, and even so prominently, on the way

proletarian writers and even found quoters among IopyatUya V KOM-.

Munist Party. Both syndicalists in the field, economic and
other poets in the ideological field try to isolate themselves from other creative
ical groups.

This one. bourgeois.- syndicalist ‘plan is dead, dead, even ‘with
its origin; him. preachers: . and; defenders `1 ‘unless: o‘only
separate. persons. ‚place. see the real road, ‹ distinguish it

from a random path sprinkled with water. bourgeois. quagmire, not oo

class. that

If only. proletarian writers and poets wanted to know about my work.

to isolate themselves in their own trade union, but it is possible that such
buildings can accommodate proletarian artists, musicians and performers.
They. will create their own trade unions and cook in their own

ideologicallyx fabrications, fearing that Proletkult,. i.e., the proletariat, in-_
going through cultural and creative work in a knowledgeable and organized manner will constrain.

their comfuturists (communist-futurists) etc. syndicalist impulses.

when the whole falls apart into... parts. But this situation will last forever!

new time, as it is clear for. everyone can't stand up. task first coordinate:
ning. work, and then organizational. connections of all kinds: creativity,
i.e. everything will return to the situation that some people now don’t like so much
to those individualistic-minded young people. communists; little concern
stretching. at the expense of theoretical justifications, their own. selfish, schismatic
ches. wants. Unfortunately for the syndicalist poets, the proletariat as a whole
will not agree with their point of view, and. they will stay. c, brilliant isolation;
he will not allow his body to be shredded, he will not allow the unfolding cult to be sprayed
tour-creative movement. He will generously provide for those who want
to be only and.only,. poets, freedom. creativity; or rather the freedom to die
far from the broad mainstream of the cultural and creative process.
Y

„No. 15—16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. - 47.

®

This is all the more undeniable because... syndicalist plans of individual poets”
generally diverge from trends; Soviet. construction. Communist.
agricultural economy and communist society, presenting the fullest possible
the ability to identify each individual. and individual groups. yours. original-
sti in a closely knit team, that is. Not. less. characterized by c. his. organiza-
tion: construction by strict centralization,: no matter how complex they were:
individual parts of it. mechanism. And for three years of the Soviet Republic we"
little by little we are getting out of the petty-bourgeois-svparatisko-independent currents and from
JSC position of power becomes. c. position. "vertical";

those. local authorities, “so familiar with their local tasks,”
is increasingly centralized and more organized, acting: in its ‘places’ in full
in agreement with the decisions that are madeI'm in p, ive
in the same places }

And small, in. 5-6 people, “a bunch of poets from among the workers, and...
support for Surikov workers, cube and others, wheels & historical: development
don't turn back. They will tear themselves up and stay behind. Proletarian poets
put forward the slogan: “Long live the proletarian culture and ideological
independence of proletarian writers,” isn’t it? similarities, with the slogan:
“Long live the Soviets; down with the Bolsheviks”; ,With. slogan, “no.” So. a long time ago
advanced among the little-conscious. the masses who are ideologically deceived
the bourgeoisie whined.

Proletarian poets fear not poets in workers' proletcults. It's them
they, the poets, will be told. Never this. not to happen. It's not. puts up with them
professional, bourgeois pride. But from the point of view of the collective
There cannot be any formulation of the question. Marx believed. poets. weirdos, th-

He said that the standard of ordinary i.e. cannot be applied to them. even ‚unusually
important people, let them sing, but cajole them with flattery and don’t approach them,
= him with harsh criticism. Maybe someone will like it. this one is murderous
all-forgiving condescension.. We prefer to stand on the point of view
F. Engels, who wrote: “if you become a pastor, stick to what
both of them have orthodox Christian views, but...if you! you will become poet,
I will deal with you in my own way.”

DH

Proletkults can. embarrass . independence. creativity, therefore
proletarian poets must create. your trade union. self-
telny in ideological. relation, - i.e. resolutions of the All-Russian
Proletkult, are optional for him.

Strange story. Proletkult is an organization, first of all I create
creating conditions for the creativity of the proletariat, for its initiative, and suddenly
it can hinder the amateur activity of proletarian poets.

There's something here. nope! A. business. that's the point. Zalistichesya" specified
The syndicalist position is usually repeated: - we are poets, first of all. everything, and
Proletkult should give us. all the conditions for our creativity.He must.
find everything, organize everything, he must, get it. paper. and, print
us, he should give us a stage, etc. etc., etc.. They themselves are in. this
no matter. they want to hit the nail on the head. They, you see, are poets; they have no time
they only want to do this menial work. be printed. and perform
at solemn and crowded meetings. Even those poets say this
who declare that they have surpassed bourgeois poetry. who think
themselves as recognized leaders in the construction of proletarian culture
tours and, without hesitation, sing each other’s praises. They want to use
proletcults, but do not work in them.

Yes. Proletkult looks at the matter somewhat differently. He believes... what
a poet is not only a poet who retires to a studio to write, publish,
receive a fee, and live in the country in the summer (for creativity, of course, without carrying.
no public duties, especially in these difficult times. 'On-.
at

487 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ``No.'15—16

turnover than! ‘the proletarian poet is conscious, the more Participation he deserves

accept in the establishment of “literary” studios; caring not only about’ our own.
poetry; but also about conveying to others what you ‘know yourself, ‘don’t ‘become’

vyaye in the role of the poet-master, ‘to whom’ ‘everything’ should be done by his own comrades.

“These ‘should be specially hired’ workers, ‘the poet should not alarm-
“live your muse,” they say, “Doesn’t this remind you, reader, of poets
bourgeois: the world, poets, NOR estates, where servants sometimes hone
gave them pencils.

In addition; now, video, “in the exact language of proletarian poetry

not yet; Proletkult ‘not soon’ will outline ‘the exact contours, & between

he polemicizes” with the Comfuturists, “Imagists” and even prohibits
perform in the cafe'lbourgeois 'poets, where. you can measure it by force’ ©
Shershenevich, Mayakovsky, Balmont and many others. “But” after all
Balmont enizaled that ‘the poet must’ be free, ‘like a bird, and he himself

Andrey Bely, an expert on poetry, confirmed what they had already said

caviar

Yes ChTroletvUlvas are fighting and ‘in futurism s. `imagism, and essence

matism; and the “communists-futurists” themselves see the influence of the dying

bourgeoisie ‘6 its’ perverted tastes It is true that Proletkults cannot’ -

now ‘indicate the exact paths’ to the flying poets. It’s a whole process, and it

goes parallel to the development of social life, and not on cue. ‘voligeb:

Noah 'sticks! And those who are “little knowledgeable” come to the Proletcults of Greece
requirements) which “even” Nommuni-
stic International, 'and' are least 'of all' capable of re- Of course, not-
skolBko’lost the balance of the spirit of poets: a <.

But ‘the proletariat organized in *vi knows well’ ^

his ‘goals, his’ wadachi’ and vigilantly watches” those who, hiding “iro-
be: with a sail, sailing back to the ‘old’ shores.

“It was not for nothing that the proletarian Poets who arrived” immediately “demanded ‘BT’ 140”

age-old group of “poets”: workers, “corpsed” at the “Literary
Department Nar. Com. Enlightenment so that they leave: the bourgeois cafe of poetry
on Tverskaya, in which there is a shelter for those “who are cramped’ and ‘aria in
Proletkultakh.

Champions of the ideological independence of proletarian poets. meh
`vroimv’ have still decided, ‘their’ point ‘vreviya’ is confused; they are still cautious,

with lamentations” about Proletkultv they join “various futurists and others.
istists, but some are already beginning to form, even alien, bourgeois, pre-.
read the contents. And here, with the praises of bourgeois criticism’ and’ its 003

caring self-concern ‘about’ theory can easily happen. prevra-
education” into one of the varieties of bourgeois ‘iets: And” amateur activities: then
these poets need to ‘easier’ ‘unite’ with these ‘ists and together’ with
in the name of the proletariat, they create an imaginary proletarian vulgarity. Pooped

there is already amateur activity here. Not self-activity, ‘&’ powerlessness to escape. from th

the tangle of ‘bourgeois psychology and’ ideology. 'The moment of struggle will destroy o

of the old world they walked. y: keep up with those who fight, celebrate, & when it comes -

drank‘everyday life, creative work has come and is slow, ‘which is being ‘created’

new ‘society, ‘they became’ bored; their “muse” does not find material for yours] -
honest, - ‘demands’ convenience in order to’ come up with proletarian poetry, in a quiet
solitude content ‘exchange your form and your emptiness. cover up
sophistication, pretentiousness’, etc.

Proletkults don’t deny this at all. Late F; I. Kalinin’ on
pages, Proletarian Culture” more than once emphasized the bourgeois-bourgeois
the essence of defenders of the independence of art, revealing lifelessness
these “living corpses” and their “lofty inventions”.

Y 6if some “poets, greedy for the outer shell and corpse

smell, are looking for independence ‘from the Proyotvults, let them. will be bamostoy-:

telbny.`
#
155-16 HAS PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

These deviations and wanderings and even the complete break of the individual poet
with the proletarian masses is historically understandable. This. childhood disease is moving
nia. She will pass. And cultural and creative organizations of the prohetariat, Pro
letcults must be unshakable when turbid waves rush at them
ROO of ayana culture.
m TU
Steadfastness, however, does not mean carelessness. The disease will pass, but
nevertheless, it needs to be proven and paralyzed at first so that it does not
lasted for a longer time and did not affect other predispositions
placed to her. th

What to do? First of all, we need to strengthen our propaganda work
on the foundations of Marxism; We must not forget that the party book is not a guarantee
discourages carelessness and frivolity in the field of theory; in normal work
It is necessary to place comrades in such living conditions that,
by molding them in the spirit of communism, to paralyze the petty-bourgeois-individualistic
mood, without chasing after those who can smartly select. rhymes and read
the science of verse by V. Bryusov and A. Bely. Before each employee Prodet-
cult there should always be a complete picture of everything culturally and creatively
the movement of the proletariat, & not any particular part of it. And since a person
focus on one part,or go to the unit, give himself up to this
parts without thinking about the whole, then the same story will undoubtedly happen to him,
which we observe over scientists in the bourgeois world. Shutting off from the world
science into a specialty, the scientist breaks away from knowledge as a worldview,
limits its horizon, binds its creative forces and, in the end,
In the end, he becomes a mediocre philistine.

We must explain, sparing no time, that poetry is not an end in itself, but only
a certain means in organizing social life, and as a medium
cannot dominate the target unless he wants to become a windbag
and unnecessary chatter and hype.

As for the trade union, as an organization that protects
legal and economic interests (17), then let it exist if
active poets find that the Soviet government does not protect, or little
protects their rights and economic interests - and let it exist as
section of the general union of writers. We need to contact professional
movement so that they will understand to some that now the unions of organic
are called not by profession, and especially not by origin, & by production
government, and their goal, not counting, of course, the Mensheviks, is not to protect
legal and economic interests, ‘and the task of organizing the labor force and
assistance in the construction of public production together with {corresponding
national Soviet institutions.

If they don’t like the general union of writers, they can blunt it
Union of Education Workers and Socialist Culture, the closest
and the most valuable for workers of proletarian culture.

In a word, let them go wherever they are drawn, but let their floundering in the shackles
bourgeois ideology is not covered with the red word of ideological self-
worthiness, as the bourgeois defenders of the
university autonomy. \:

Once upon a time, young Lassalle wrote about Heine: “he tore from his head the supposed
Binsky cap and put on a hat with braided, noble curls.”

If the fall of some reaches such limits, we will boldly say
similar: “bannerproletarian culture, the banner of building commu-
istic life, you are drowning in the swamp of petty-bourgeois professionalism. And to us
not on the road. .

Valeryan Polyansny.

Proletarian culture. No. 15—16 4
50 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

The fetter of proletarian creativity.
(Theses).

1. Creativity, all sorts of technical, socio-economic, political
social, everyday, scientific, artistic—represents a type of labor,
and in the same way is composed of organizing (or disorganizing) human
sky efforts. This is nothing more than labor, the product of which is not reproduced.
by producing a finished image, there is something “new”. No and cannot be strict
the boundaries between creativity and simple labor; not only are there all
transitional stages, but often one cannot even say with certainty which of the two
notation is more applicable.

Human labor, always drawing on collective experience and taking advantage of
collectively developed means, in this sense is always collective,
no matter how narrowly individual his goals and his external
nyaya, direct form (i.e., both when it is the work of one person, and
only for yourself). So is creativity.

Creativity is the highest, most complex type of work. Therefore his methods
come from working methods.

The old world was neither aware of this general social nature of labor nor
creativity, nor the connection of their methods. He dressed creativity with the fetishism of mysterious
cial.

2. All methods of labor—and with it creativity—lie in the same
within. Its first phase is a combining effort, the second is the selection of its re-
results, eliminating the unsuitable, preserving the suitable. At work
“physical” combines material things, “spiritual” - images;
but, as the latest psychophysiology shows, the nature of efforts, combinations
those who pick up and those who pick up have the same thing—nervomuscular.

Creativity combines materials in a new way, not in a familiar way,
which leads to a more complex, more intensive selection. Combination
and the selection of images occurs incomparably easier and faster than material
new things.Therefore, creativity more often occurs in the form of “spiritual” labor, -
but by no means exclusively. Almost all discoveries are “accidental” and “unnoticed”
"were obtained by selecting material combinations, and not through pre-
cooking combination and selection of images.

3. The methods of proletarian creativity have their basis in the methods of pro-
Letarian. labor, i.e. the type of work that is typical for workers
the newest major industry.

Features of this type: 1) connection of elements of “physical” and “duplicate”
godly labor; 2) transparent, not hidden or disguised by anything,
collectivism in its very form. The first depends on the scientific nature of the new
our tactics, in particular, from the transfer of the mechanical side of the forces of the ma-
tire: the worker is increasingly turning into a “leader” of iron slaves,
& his work increasingly comes down to “spiritual” efforts—attention,
considerations, control, initiative, the role of muscle tension in relation to
is greatly reduced. The second depends on the concentration of labor in the mass
joint cooperation, and from the convergence of specialized types of labor
machine production, which is increasingly direct,
the phasic specialization of workers is transferred to machines. Objective and
the subjective homogeneity of labor increases, destroying the barriers between
employees; and with this homogeneity there is actual compatibility. labor hundred
is renewed by the basis of comradeship. i.e., consciously collectivistic relations
between them. These relationships, with their results—mutual understanding
understanding, mutual sympathy and the desire to act smoothly—expand,
crossing the boundaries of the factory, profession, production, to the working class in

%

No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 51

nationally and then globally. Collectivism of human struggle
quality with nature is realized for the first time.

4. Thus, the methods of proletarian labor develop in the direction
tion of monism 4 conscious collectivism. In the same direction
Naturally, the methods of proletarian creativity are also laid down.

5. These features have already beenbe clearly expressed in the methods of those areas where
proletarian creativity has hitherto manifested itself primarily in economics.
mic and political struggle and in scientific thinking. In the first two
areas this was constantly reflected in the unity of the structure of organizations, which
The proletariat created different types - party, professional, cooperative:
the same type, the same principle—comradely, i.e. consciously
collectivistic; was also reflected in software development, which in all
they gravitated steadily towards one ideal, namely the socialist one. In science
and philosophy, Marxism was the embodiment of both the monism of the method and the conscious
collectivist tendency. Further development based on the same methods
do/should develop a universal organizational science, monistically
unifying the entire organizational experience of humanity in its social work
and struggle.

6. Everyday creativity, since it goes beyond the limits of economic
civil and political struggle, which has hitherto proceeded spontaneously among the proletariat, is why
no less along the same line; This is evidenced by the development of the proletarian
family from the authoritative structure of the peasant or bourgeois to the comrade
relations, and the worldwide ‘established proletarian form of polite-
“comrade.” Since this creativity will in the future be conscious
Indeed, it is quite obvious that his methods will be imbued with the same
principles: it will be creativity of harmonious-integrity, consciously-col-
lectivistic life.

7. In the sphere of artistic creativity, the old culture is characterized
uncertainty and unconsciousness of methods ("inspiration", etc.), their
isolation from the methods of labor practice, from the methods of creativity in other
hy areas. Although the proletariat is only taking its first steps here,
The general tendencies characteristic of it are already clearly outlined. Monism takes its toll
in an effort to merge art with work life, to make art a tool
ee active-aesthetic transformation. the entire line. 'Collectivism, in-
initially spontaneous, and then more and more consciousative, stands out clearly in the content
appreciation of works of art, and even in the form of artistic expression
perception of life, illuminating the image not only of human life, but also
life of nature: nature as a field of collective labor; its connections and harmony,
as the embryos and prototypes of the organization of the team.

8. The technical methods of the old art developed separately from
methods of other areas of life; the technique of proletarian art must consciously
carefully search and use the material and all those methods. E.g. photography,
stereography, film photography, spectral colors, phonography, etc. should
find your specific place in the system of artistic technique, how it
means. From the principle of method monism it follows that there cannot be methods
practices and sciences that could not find a direct or indirect application
changes in art, and vice versa.

9. Conscious collectivism transforms the entire meaning of the artist’s work,
giving her new incentives. The former artist saw in his work the identification
your individuality; the new one will understand and feel what is in him and through him
creates a great whole—a collective. For the first, originality is expressed
recognition of the intrinsic value of his “I”, a means of his exaltation; for the second it means
expects a deep and broad capture of collective experience, and there is an expression of it
share of active participation in creativity and development of the life of the team. First
may semi-consciously strive for life’s truth—or shy away from
her; the second must realize that truth, objectivity is a support for the collective
lective in his work and struggle. The first may or may not value art.

4*
#

52 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

natural clarity; for the second, it is nothing more than the availability of quantity
lecture, in which the living meaning of the artist’s efforts.

10. Awareness of collectivism, deepening mutual understanding of people and
the connection of feeling between them will make possible an incomparably broader
than hitherto, the development also of direct collectivism in creative
honor, i.e., direct. cooperation in ‘it many,up to the mass.

11. In the art of the past, as in its science, there are many hidden
elements, collectivism. By revealing them, proletarian criticism makes it possible
the ability to creatively perceive the best works of old culture, in
new world and with a huge enrichment of their value. .

12. The main difference between new creativity and the previous one is that it is here.
for the first time understands himself and his role in life.

,A. Bogdanov.

England as a field of proletarian culture.

England was a pioneer of capitalism. Over the course of several generations
the majority of the working masses of England were factory workers, fly-
ries in the modern capitalist sense of the word. Large
industrial centers such as: London, Glasgow, Manchester, Birmingham, Leeds,
Bradfort and others accustomed and adapted millions of proletarians to hard
and the monotonous life of a slave in a capitalist factory and thus
absorbed the young and strong part of the country's rural population. On
The English factory was always hard work, & strict discipline. Outside
there were always unemployed people at the factory gates, like the specter of hunger;
they reminded the workers of the fate that awaited them if
if their employers were unhappy with their work. Usually after
workers were too tired during the working day; to be interested in culture
tour requests. Creative impulses were broken. Need
in amateur performances was destroyed. The ruling class, wanting to preserve their
domination, deliberately demoralized the proletariat. An ordinary aspiration
was to create a broad, passive proletarian masseu—Gishtreyree]efal1a4—
without. hope, without ideals, without power and without imagination.

Generations of these workers lived in a poisonous industrial atmosphere.
towns, which greatly relaxed the working masses.
The poison of the century and a half has penetrated into the flesh and blood of the modern English worker.
summer economic slavery, spent in passivity and hibernation and
exploited in damp, dark and unhealthy rooms. This fact
we shouldn't missout of sight when thinking about cultural opportunities
of the modern English proletariat.

* *%
+ .

Educational chances given to English workers
capitalist class have always been low and insignificant. To the working masses
exactly as much knowledge was given as was required in order to
enable them to be exploited. True, illiteracy is actually
England has been liquidated. The workers can read and write, but only in the
in an elementary sense. Higher education has always been inaccessible to them.
The doors of advanced schools and universities were always closed to
them. Only with supernatural efforts can the proletarian take advantage of
benefit from a good education, and no worker can afford
pour. afford the luxury of incurring expenses associated with visiting large universities
universities of Oxford and Cambridge. However, among the majority of pro-
letariat there is an ever-increasing desire for higher education
No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 53

vocation. To satisfy this request, various institutions were created
nia. So, for example, the “Society for the Education of Workers” - to a large extent
depending on the bourgeois. patronage - has over two hundred branches
throughout the country. Next. "People's League"; purely Marxist, educational
propaganda organization, not so ‘common, but, nevertheless,
‘has a significant influence, predominantly in South Wales, among
mining workers, in London and some other industrial
centers of the north.

Taking into account this request, a number of workers' schools were established:
school of “Professional Unions” with bourgeois teachers, under
called "Ruskin College" in Oakford, and three Marxist workers' schools,
"Central Working School in London", funded by the Mining Federation
workers of South Wales and the National Union of Railway Workers,
"Workers' School in Manchester and Scottish Workers' School in Glasgow."

®
* *

While in England there live thousands of workers under
influence of socialist thoughtand feelings, and while there is
many thousands of workers who feel an urgent need for better
education, the idea of creating a purely proletarian culture practically
does not exist. There are many reasons for this, besides being depressed
cheerfulness and lack of education. Most of all and first of all
English workers are demoralized by the capitalist press. They are fed
lies. These newspapers appeal to the low, flat, empty instincts of 'man'
and owe their existence and popularity to vile murders and
_light-minded stories. Tired and exhausted workers, too ‘drained’

those interested in serious reading excite their imaginations with this harmful
press, just as a habitual drunkard seeks oblivion in wine. Next
there are chants and cinemas that represent low cultural
value which complement the press in demoralizing the worker. class
and make him incapable of mental labor and effort. Other interest-
new entertainment is the so-called sport that develops instincts
passion more than the desire for healthy physical exercise. Only
a small percentage of workers. actually plays football or cricket.
None of them take part in horse racing, yet thousands, even
‘millions of workers follow the fate of various football and cricket
competitions or races with an interest bordering on fanaticism.
g*t*

While these factors hinder the development of the proletarian
culture, they at the same time contribute to the spread of other bourgeois
various forms of psychological and intellectual enslavement. So, for example
However, religion has had little success among English workers. Workers usually
They definitely don’t attend church. There is a movement of “Religious Brotherhood”, one
of which the leaders are gr. Arthur Gendersen, and which tries to
gain influence on the social life of workers, but enjoys influence
only among a tiny minority.

*+#x

There are numerous workers' clubs in England, mainly
liberal-radicalgo and trade unionist persuasion. This is mainly
places for drinking, very little different from taverns, and in which you can
purchase alcoholic drinks during hours when pubs are closed. They contain
concerts, entertainment and entertainment of various types, but not carried out
no cultural work. These clubs, however, could be made from
nickname, arousing interest in proletarian culture, where some of
permanent propagandists could conduct energetic work among the workers
54 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

There is no need to draw conclusions from the above brief facts about co-
social factors surrounding the worker in England, that the situation
completely hopeless. Vice versa. There are a number of signs indicating
for different possibilities. So, for example, a significantly huge number
works of classics in cheap editions, which are sold everywhere.
"A Library for Everyone" and "Nelson's Classics" are stocked with the best of
knowledge of world literature, in a form suitable for workers, and
this literature is phenomenal. Millions of copies of Shakespeare's works,
Dickens, Tucker, Balzac, Dumas, Dostoevsky, Williams Maurice,
Anatole France, Byron, Shelley, Victor Hugo and others were sold. ^

Another sign is the increasing demand for better music, better
game and opera. In the summer there are good concerts in public parks, and
In winter, good concerts are also organized for workers. "National
Resurrected League" in theaters and concert halls. There is no doubt
movement in favor of the development of cultural life among the English masses, but in
it cannot be seen as an expression of will and initiative, from the outside
workers—it is predominantly inspired by the bourgeoisie. .

The fact that over the past two years in a number of industrial
agreement was reached regarding the reduction of workers
day should also be recognized as significant. Eight o'clock worker
The day is now practically carried out. Workers have at their disposal
dressing up more freetime. Drunkenness also decreased compared to
differences with pre-war times. The restrictions caused by the war forced
Workers should not indulge in drunkenness to such an extent. Their inclinations now
are no longer directed towards the tavern. In warm weather they are drawn out of town,
and in winter they attend concerts and cinemas. This in turn
should make England a suitable field for sowing proletarian culture

tours. Yo
*

In England, the factory is looked upon as a place that should perhaps
‘Hurry up and show off. The workers hate the factory and look at it only
as a place that provides food. It will be difficult to fight
this point of view. Many employers have recently sought to
make factories the center of social life for workers, but with very little

success.
% %
%

From the above it is clear that the English proletariat in its cultural
in its manifestations, almost entirely depends on the ruling class. Vee
in workers’ clubs, in various “Grad Unions”, in Cooperative Associations
Tsiah, as well as in the Communist movement itself, there is an extreme
an incredibly wide field for work, for propaganda, and for the development of amateur

.‚ tality. :

The Communist Party is now in the process of being created from the depths
English Socialist Party and Socialist Labor Party.
We consider it a duty. The Communist Party to create a movement in favor of
development of proletarian culture. This kind of movement, we think, is best
s’able to develop in close connection with the “League of the People” and the “Marxist Workers”
chimi Schools“,

Its field of activity should expand:

1. Conduct constant propaganda among all workers' organizations, in
Participation in Trade Unions, Workers' Clubs and Cooperative Associations.
2. Use the proletarian press on the widest scale.

3. Strive to create real proletarian clubs.

4. Create cultural and educational commissions in factories.

5. To gain the widest popularity in strengthening
proletarian culture abroad.
No. 15—16 PROLE TAR CULTURE. 55

6. Give a proletarian appearance to all concerts and public spectacles,
organized with the participation of the Communist Party and other workers
organizations.

7. Put the stamp of proletarian culture on the decoration of the premises
Workers' Clubs, Trade Unions, Workers' Houses and Communist Reading Rooms.

8. And, above all, use every occasion to stimulate
workers' desires to create their own culture.

* *
%

We do not think that the task of removing workers from false spectacles,
organized by the capitalists will be very difficult if the necessary
conditions for this.

The genius of the English proletariat is not yet dead. He's just dozing.

Manifestations on the part of the English working class must be non-
fake-proletarian. We are convinced that the contribution that will be made
English workers into world Communist culture will be more
and will represent a permanent value for all humanity.

Tom Nvelch.

(a significant enlightenment of the workers of England.

The English working class has not yet made a revolution, and therefore
normal cultural and educational opportunities are under control
bourgeoisie. As a result, we have a system of class education.

Children of wealthy parents attend secondary schools in their youth, &
then move on to university, where they continue their education by studying
disciplines available exclusively to the ruling class. They are studying
political economy, law, medicine, philosophy, etc. They are intended
are destined to dominate and therefore their education should make them
viteles.

The middle class (petty bourgeoisie) sends their children to special education
educational institutions, and only a few of them move on to university.
They end up as doctors, lawyers, or other professions.
They are intended to be accomplices of capitalism, and they should
prepare them for this role.

The working class receives an education that makes them useful
for employers. Children of workers learn writing, reading and arithmetic in
how much is thisrequired to be mechanics, clerks,
artelsiks, etc. They are taught a little history, but this is the history of the kings
and queens, generals and ministers - they are taught a little geography, but they
mainly refers to information about the British Empire and that benefit
telial regime that England applies to its subordinates
to her numerous countries. About pvc own position in society
what is not said.

This kind of education makes an educated English worker
ignorant. He knows many things, but he doesn't know about the most important things...
what, or almost nothing.

In order to eradicate this evil, the British labor movement
followed the path of independent cultural and educational work.

15 years ago several trade unions decided to found a working
school known as Ruskin College in Oxford. Here we must
economic sciences, labor history and the like were taught
essential discipline for workers. A few years later it turned out that
Orthodox universities tried to extend their influence to
56 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

Ruskin College. They sent professors to give lectures and post-
They foamily undermined the independence of the college. In 1912, many students
refused. continue the studies and with the assistance of several good
rich people founded the “Central School of Labor”: Some “trade unions”
and still send students to Ruskin College, but this
the educational institution is no longer considered independent.

The Central Labor School is located in London. In the first years of his
existence she really needed money, but since she moved
was administered by the National Union of Railway Workers, and the Union of Mining
workers of South Wales,” her situation improved somewhat. Students in
for one year they listen to the theory of Marxism and history. labor, logic,
theory of evolution, English language and some other disciplines. By
At the end of the course they return to their workshops ortheir mines and
usually become the most active members of their unions and their
committees. ,

In addition to school work, the college has also established extracurricular activities.
for those who cannot attend full-time courses and parallel classes
for those who live in parts of the city too distant from the school. Veya
work proceeds under the sign of independent worker education and worker diya
class. These undertakings encounter some difficulties due to the lack
good teachers, & also the amounts needed to expand the work.
For a number of years, in Glazkov and the Glazkovsky district, John McLane led the
economics, as a result of which the “Shodlandekaya Rabochaya” was founded
The school”, which began functioning in September last year. Lead-
The principals of this College are John MacLane and W. MacLane, who
have a staff of approximately 20 lecturers teaching one class
or twice a week. The work of the first year was very fruitful; however,
due to the fact that the establishment was still young, it was not possible to attract
listeners, so I had to focus all my attention ‘on the outside’
school activities.

Our program includes: the theory of Marxism, labor history (with details
significant study of the history of the working class), Esperanto, English and
oratory, history of trade unions and their structure,
cooperation, political knowledge, etc. For the first academic period—from September
October to December—565 students studied in eleven classes in the city
Glasgow and 2000 students in more than thirty classes in various areas
onah of Scotland, and for the second academic period—from January to April 1920—
We had slightly more students and classes, but statistical data
The new ones were not prepared when I left England. To the next school
period, from September, we will have a certain number of listeners, attending
daytime classes, sent by trade unions,

The Scottish Working School is funded in part by some |
trade unions, such as miners and technicians, co-oporganizational
nizations, and gatherings at socialist rallies. Difficult to expand
work due to the uncertainty of material support.

Usually after the last lecture the lecturer is asked questions. Listen-
Students are encouraged to write reports on issues raised in lectures, and
these reports are reviewed by managers and returned as normal
ok.

It must be admitted that this kind of housework is not done
often, in view of the fact that many listeners are busy in their unions, in cooperation
tivah, or carry out party work and have very little free time.

Schools in the city of Glasgow are attended mainly by dock workers,
mechanics and some other workers, In the schools of small towns predominate
miners, metallurgical workers and technicians. Almost all villages in
where our schools are located are industrial in nature. While we are
killed agricultural workers. In addition to those listed, you
No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 57

colleges, and there are a number of schools scattered throughout the country. Southern
Wales is particularly outstanding in this regard, with Lancashire and Northsemberland
organized small colleges that united disparate
classes. An attempt was made to form a national organization; equal
Two conferences were convened to discuss the issue of
training manuals, exchange of views and closer cooperation between
all “classes” and colleges. The initiative in this matter was taken by “Na-
"native League", which is an organization promoting
the idea of independent education of workers. It publishes a monthly organ,
called "People's Journal", which contains articles on
various provisions of Marxism, issues of labor history, bibliography
and various notes and reports on educational work. "People's League"
was a pioneer in organizing workers' education and to a great extent
Neni is responsible for her work done.

An interesting commentary on the activities of the “working classes” was given in
1917 Row of industrialx unrest forced the government to appoint
how many commissions in order to find out their reasons. The commission working in
South Wales, reported that a significant number of young miners
sneezes and tin smelter workers attend Marxist schools and
receive a revolutionary education, which destroyed his respect for
leaders of trade unions and tempted them to use all kinds of crises
for revolutionary purposes. The commission recommended the establishment of special
working departments at universities, which should try to attract
young people and protect them from the teachings of Marxism. This point of view
‘the industrialists of South Wales might as well have
changed in relation to Scotland and other parts of England. Wherever
Marxist schools were founded, although for a time a cadre of active
workers who refused to accept sophistical reasoning
employers and also refused the compromises ‘achieved
leaders of trade unions. The two most important revolutionary industries
The capital centers are South Wales and the Valley of the River Eucleidch, around Glasgow,
and it was precisely in these two that the workers’ schools showed the greatest
ZETITIVITY.

The reactionary leaders of the trade unions are in opposition to
colleges and are trying to prevent us from receiving
‘material support from trade unions, but our friendly ranks
pushing them out of our way. It is hardly necessary to mention that the work
The givers are fighting us. Recently the English State League, the organiza-
nization, which primarily includes factory owners and capitalists,
‘published the appeal in newspapers and anywhere else; demanding to donate money for
struggle against workers' unrest and "Revolutionary Workers"
whose schools" She and her "criminal-reliable" own
new schools. s

Movement towards the creation of independent shiol of workers' education in
In England everything will grow. Listeners are serious comrades who thirst
acquire the knowledge necessary to take an appropriate place in society
yuzah, cooperactivists and socialist parties. Leaders betrayed
"to their cause and make every effort to imprint in the minds

- Students have the view that Marxism is not a subject for. pedan-
economic dissertations, but that it is something re-
nal, living and gives us methods for studying society.

+

V. Man Lane.

Potlandic Workers' College.
58 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15--16

Vleksey Gpyrev.

(Poet-worker.)

The name of the working poet Alexoy Gmyrev is unlikely to be known to many. It and
no wonder. During his lifetime, only a few of his poems appeared in print.
creations. He himself died untimely in prison. And then great events—
war and revolution completely obscured his fate and his name.

Alexey Gmyrev is not a first-class poet. By what he ate
it is impossible, however, to judge what he could give. His whole life from the age of 16
She spent her summer years in poverty and illness, in exile and in prison. Such
harmful conditions, naturally, did not allow his talent to strengthen and develop.
Moreover, he died at the age of twenty-four, when other poets—
happier ones are just starting their activities. Nowadays, when the worker
class accomplished what Alexey Gmyrev fought and died for, then,
what he dreamed about and what he sang about, it is our duty to extract his personality and his
poetry from the darkness of undeserved oblivion and give him a place in history
our poetry in general and workers’ poetry in particular.

, t.

Alexey Mikhailovich Gmyrev was born on March 10, 1887 in Smolenek.

His father was a railway conductor. The mother died when the boy
Chick was only 4 years old. The father soon married again to a woman with whom
lived while his wife was still alive. The stepmother immediately and deeply did not fall in love
stepson and did everything to poison his childhood. She even beat him
when I found her reading a book. My father was constantly on the move and had no one to
there was no one to complain to, no one to rely on. The boy lived “lonely, like a little boy”
“what a little animal,” as he put it. The stepmother also didn’t like the fact that he became
attend school. Lessons come oftenelk to cook with friends or even in
forest. So, under constant oppression, he graduated from the sixth-grade school at the age of thirteen.
school in Smolensk. A year later, his older brother came for him and took him to
the city of Nikolaev, where Alexey entered the shipyard as a worker.

This was in those memorable years (1901-1903), when the working class entered
on the path of open struggle against tsarism, when a series of political strikes
more and more stormy and crowded foreshadowed our first revolution. In this
in an environment filled with rebellious feelings, he quickly grew up and matured
Alexey Gmyrev. r,

“Here at the factory,” he later wrote, “I immediately became an adult.
At the time there was strong unrest among the workers. An uprising was brewing. I am mine
with a childish heart he listened to everything around him and accepted (in
everyone) the most ardent participation, since my senior comrades trusted me. -
And they trusted me with a lot.”

About what feelings inspired the young worker who was preparing
participate in the revolutionary struggle, evidenced by one thing
from his poems describing his entry into the factory.

Instead of a mother's quiet tender caress,

Instead of kisses and hello words

Whirlwinds of evil dancing were heard above me

Crazy heavy factory machines.
Years dragged on... Young forces
They fought in vain from the yoke of adversity;
Suddenly from the centuries-old darkness of the black night
There were calls for light and fight.

And without hesitation, joyful and proud

I entered under the banner of free labor.
2№ 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 59

In 1903, a powerful wave of general political violence swept across the south.
tic strike. Without hesitation, sixteen-year-old Alexey became
ranks of rebels and was arrested. Released after several months
prisoners of the prison, he, being politically unreliable, could not find a
bots and was doomed to a hungry and homeless life as an unemployed person. In one
from his letters from prison, he subsequently vividly described these difficult
days of need and wandering...th

“We’ve been dragging out a dog’s life with you, my friend, and now that I’m
I remember the goals we experiencedwidowhood and night wanderings in frost and blizzard,
I just gasp in surprise that we didn’t get sick of the cold and cold then.
Do you remember how we, chattering our teeth from cold and hunger, smoked ourselves as we passed
past the bakery, the smells of such a seductive rosy, so delicious
bread Do you remember how we approached one of these almost every day?
bakeries and masterfully agitated Volik in favor of our hunger, agitated
continued until he became imbued with the painful whining of our empty
belly and, at the risk of being left without income, observing all methods of secrecy,
brought us a fair piece of bread, and we, like hungry wolves, trembling
for their loot, they ran to the first apartment they knew and there, finally, they gave
space for jaws and stomachs exhausted from lack of food. And in the evenings,
when the foggy twilight fell over the city, our hungry family
fought somewhere on the corner of a working-class district, and we sang menacing songs
hunger, labor and struggle. And in the sounds of these songs they forgot for a while and hunger,
and cold, and poverty and unemployment, and life seemed so wonderful to us,
so majestic and so wanted to believe in the future that we all, like
alone, they would declare the greatest coward and criminal of anyone who dared
would like to remind us of hunger. Late in the evening we parted, who:
wherever I could, in search of lodging for the night, I often managed to find one, no less often
had to wander around all night in shabby clothes, under the eternally cold and
indifferent sky. And in the morning hunger awaited us again, searches awaited us again
work and x; fuck, and we lived like this for a long time, day after day, until they took you away
to become a soldier, but I was not chained.”

In 1905, Alexey Gmyrev was arrested again and spent time in prison
seven months, quoted in search of earnings between Nikolaev and Elizavet-
hail and in Anwar 1906 he was arrested for the third time. He was exiled
`in Arkhangelsk province. to the city of Kholmogory. “I was terribly annoyed,” wrote
he is from the Vologda prison to the bride, - you didn’t see how they sent us
from Nikolaev. On the way, our train was greeted with the banner of the cross.expectant women. Revolutionary songs were sung everywhere. Almost all the people
treats us sympathetically. This proves that the hated tsarism
lives in his last days. Soon Russia will be swept by a general uprising. Soon we will
we will be free." On the way, he was haunted by the thought of victory.
being in Arkhangelsk prison, he writes to his bride: “the merciless train is fast
rushes further and further from the blessed south, from. loved ones and loved ones. Oh be
“You are cursed, hated tsarist guardsmen... Many comrades tried
run. Some succeeded. In most cases, they are detained on the way
lived and were sent out again to even more distant districts. However, through
‘in a week, I’ll probably already be on the run. God, somehow I'll make it. I
I’ll go crazy if they detain me.”...

From Arkhangelsk Alexey was sent to Kholmogory. "If you
I knew,” he wrote to his bride, “how boring it is here.” No songs like ours, no
laughter, nothing can be heard. A gray, chaotic life flows. Everyone is sleeping
. an indifferent dead sleep. My health is very bad. Incessant
} headaches, sore throat, teeth, legs, insides. Eh, it would be better
die... Still, no later than June 16th, I’m running away.” At the end of June he
in fact. managed to escape to Nikolaev, from where, fleeing the police,
but moved to Elizavetgrad, where in October (1906) he was again
arrested.
60 | PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16

The revolution, shot in December 1905, was still raging
in the country, and, full of hope, he wrote from the Elizabethan prison: “Soon
our long-suffering Russia will be engulfed in a general uprising. Labor: on-
the clan will overthrow the hated royal tyranny and win free will
Lyushka. And I, free and proud, will fly to Nikolaev again. I love Nikolaev,
I love its wide, straight, green streets. I love blue Bug and deep
cue Ingul. I love the stateliness and breadth of morals of the Nicholas proletariat.
I love the staunch, invincible Nikolaev brother-workers.”

He was no longer destined to return to Nikolaev. In the continuation of two
for years they drove him in order from Elizavetograyes to Kherson, from Kherson
back to Elizavetgrad. Letters written by him to his fiancee, brother, party members
comrades from the Kherson and Elisavetgrad prisons, they vividly draw him on-
a structure in which cheerful notes of cheerfulness permeate every now and then
- golden rays of melancholy and sadness of forced loneliness. -

“So I found myself in Kherson again,” he writes to a party comrade,
‘It’s hard for me, as if I had now carried a heavy burden on my shoulders,
from which everything tore in my chest. In Nikolaev she met me and saw me off
a group of good friends; Among them was M. (bride).”

We silently looked into each other's eyes

Through the evil bars of the carriage,

A tear burned on her eyelash,

Moans stirred within me.
And in passionate suffering I wanted to shout:
“Be patient, oh be patient, dear.”
Chains are sweet to me, shame is comforting
For the happiness of our native land.

Let your stupid enemies brazenly mock

Over our holy love,

The time for revenge will come, they will pay

For everything with my black blood.

Be patient, dear, be patient and fight.

The third bell rings and the ship quickly departs from the harbor. "Goodbye"
“fodnaya,” I whisper, without taking my eyes off my dear face. Not “goodbye” but ;before
"Vidanya" began to murmur playful waves, raised by a heavy propeller.
steamship. “Goodbye” I whisper for the last time, cheerfully and stubbornly waving
hat. The steamer makes a sharp turn, and the image of the road disappears from me
again to long painful months of imprisonment... Okoro Li
will the chains fall off? My heart was crushed by melancholy. And outside the window it’s raining and night. Give me permission
will! Tell me, does our party exist in Russia now, and if so,
what is she doing? What is her attitude towards the elections to the State Duma?
We are experiencing a curious moment. Well, it’s time, good time”:

“Spring is coming,” he wrote to the bride, “I will turn 20 years old on March 17. How quickly
‘ro time goes by. And I was so little happy. What will the year bring me? Ochastya
or death. How little hope there is for the former and how much bitter faith there is for the latter.
her... It’s sad, it’s hard, it’s offensive... But life hasn’t taken everything from me yet. Yes
I have a brother whom I hateI love it. He/March 17 is released from prison-
we. I have good friends, honest, sincere friends. So I still believe
into life. Wounded and bloodied, I proudly believe in life.’ Easter has arrived.

“How well I spent these days, when I was once free a long time ago.
‘now, now I’m completely different. The past seems like a dream, but it doesn’t work
validity. And this is no wonder. As soon as I crossed the last one
stage of my carefree childhood, life powerfully grabbed me and carried me away
into the formidable ocean of the Great Russian Revolution, one of the broad waves
with which she nailed me, young, but pretty battered by the storm, nailed me like
a small sliver broken off from the ship of the liberation movement
to the “quiet pier”, i.e. to one of the many Russian prisons.
No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 67

The soul tore and beat in vain, looking for a way out to the stormy native sea.
Walls and bars became an evil obstacle on my short journey,
and I remained physically far from life and struggle for a long time. Just a thought:
I was always with the brothers-fighters who remained in freedom, who, I believe,
will win for themselves a happy share in a fair struggle against oppressive tyranny.
They will conquer and return me and many like me back to the light... I'm tired,
exhausted. I want peace, green noisy peace. I wish I could go into the field, into the forest and
to the rustle of grass, flowers, leaves, to fall asleep sweetly... I believe it brought me back
I wish I had the same strength. And I would again join the ranks of workers-fighters and
happy, young, would fight with the dark forces hanging bloody
a nightmare. over our long-suffering homeland.’ And he ends the letter
cheerful. chord: “The people will not forget us and will soon snatch us from the tenacious clutches
dying tsarism. We will be free and happy. You just need to be proud’
endure and believe." In June he was again in the Elizavetgrade prison,
from where he wrote to the bride:

“Everything around me is so bleak, terrible, gloomy, even worse.
Here I am dressed in the shameful clothes of a thief, robber and murderer. I'm sitting
in a small cell, cramped like a coffin, and not one, but thirteen people. No
neither aboutone of them with whom I could share all the bitterness of my soul
condition. Dark, crazy thoughts of suicide are brewing in my head. If only
life had a certain personification, then, dying, I would have spat angrily
joy into her ugly face." But even this, begun in such a understanding,
feminine tone ‘the letter ends with increased cheerful notes: “In the beginning
letters I felt broken, incapable of life and struggle, &a
now, now, somewhere far away, hidden in the depths of my soul, boiled inside me
a spring of fiery, life-giving forces and I want to love, suffer and
fight." Along with the letters that he wrote from prison to his loved ones,
the structure of a prisoner buried alive is depicted in his poems. This is-
in the full sense of the word, a poetic diary of a worker immured in a “cell”
dreary and stuffy." Involuntarily his thoughts are carried away to freedom.

Spring
The skies are shining, cheerful thunder is booming.
It’s so good to be free now!
The sleeping forest woke up and rustled its leaves;
The field was decorated with flowers and grass.
And choirs of birds sing in the blue azure.
It’s so good to be free now!
My Marusenka from blue cornflowers
He is weaving a large wreath for his dear sister Zoya,
And she runs after her and catches moths.
It’s so good to be free now!
Everything has come to life, blooms, and even my people
He strives for a better life more boldly and cheerfully.
It’s so good to be free now!
Dear Fatherland. Really never
I will never see your native beauty again.
After all, I want to live like this, spring is so young.
It’s so good to be free now!

And here in prison, “in a cramped and stuffy cell,” on all sides of it’
gloomy impressions surrounded. In the cell where he is imprisoned, there is already
two brave fighters died, and he involuntarily says to himself:

Bow your knees with quiet sadness,
When in the twilight of gray corners
Honest shadows will appear before you
Two untimely fallen fighters.
62 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 15-16.

And more and more heroic fighters are dying in the damned dungeon.

Three carpenters at night in the prison yard
They knocked anxiously and quickly,
Behind the young garoy at dawn
“The priest and the Cossacks” were sent.
He walked out in chains into a deserted corridor
And he shouted to us:“Brothers, farewell!”
Quickly go out into the open space,
“Say hello to the bride.”

Or the sentry killed the worker, political M. Klin through a top
(in Chaereon prison).

The fighter fell, struck by a bullet,
With a cry of revenge on his lips. - I
Sleep well, comrade, sleep well
The hour of reckoning is coming!
The seed of national revenge
Trozno ripens and grows.

Sleep in the darkness of the ominous night

Your image burns with struggle;

Sleep, comrade, sleep, worker,

We are with you, always with you!

The man walled up alive had only two consolations. This is before
total inspiration. But in prison it is a rare guest.

No songs are sung, the muse has flown away,

It must be hard for her in prison with me.
., Well? She is free. Eternal Union
- I didn’t make a deal with her. |

Secondly, this is the hope of meeting with loved ones who will bring him
Hello and memory from a distant place.

^

The whole night flew by in warmth,
The morning has come: and now

I feel in my heart: relatives
They are already waiting for me at the gate. —

. The days of barter are spent,
duh, lurking at the door,
I hear a call for a date,
My heart beat strong.

: People poured into the room
With crying and laughter of love,
So they ran up to me,—
"Hello, my brothers."

And then the painfully monotonous days of prison solitude drag on again.
‘quality. “Crazy thoughts” about suicide are brewing in my head. I really want it

Break your head on damp walls,
And prove it with my death by violence,
That an eagle cannot live without freedom.

But as in letters. concluded through despondency and sadness then
As a matter of fact, cheerful cheerfulness flared up like a golden ray, so in his

in prison songs, louder than melancholy and sorrow, the joyful anthem of life sounds and
struggle.
No. 15-16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 63

From the shackles of my prison
In the shine of a sunny day
They rush in a strange line
Dreams full of fire.
Racing proudly, swimming
In the blue air of spring,
Smiling carefree
Wills bring dreams.
The soul is light and at ease,
There is no pain, no melancholy,
In the heart they sparkle separately
_Powerful lights.
Away with cold doubts
All joyless things go away
A wonderful aspiration to the sun
It won't bother you. darkness and night.
I. are rushing out of prison
In the brilliance of the sunwow day
Free, passionate line
Dreams full of fire.

x

V.

On January 26, 1908, Alexei Gmyrev was tried in Elisavetgrad. He neither us
For a moment he had no doubt that he would be acquitted. He was deeply mistaken. The court condemned
ego for six years and eight months katori. Apexey was depressed by such non-
anticipation and cruelty. He staggered and said: “They say there is
God is Law, is Truth. People lie. For us there are workers in life
just chains and bullets, bullets and chains.” And immediately his throat began to bleed.
The bitter feeling of resentment that gripped him “after the trial”, he hastened to pour out
in poems.

The trial is over and this is the result:
For all, except two minors,
Heavy chains clink.

Well then! From the stranglers of will

You couldn't wait for the willow

And each of us, knowing this,

Must suffer without complaint.
To suffer and not lose heart,
But with faith in the working people
Prepare for mortal combat,
Only battle will forge our freedom.

Alexey Gmyrev was sent to the Kherson convict prison, where he
and died three years later. After the verdict, which was so unexpected for him, he
It was as if he was in some kind of daze. “What is left to me now,”
he wrote to the bride, “nothing”... The lawless condemnation to hard labor is final
shattered my faintly flickering hopes for a happy liberation, and
cursed the day on which I was born... I knew that after the trial I would be sent away
to Kherson, I knew that on the way I would pass through Nikolaev, and then
Sure, I’ll meet you, but I was somehow indifferent to all this,
and my heart was full of melancholy and cold... The circle of good friends sympathized
literally accompanied me. Breathing heavily, the train stopped (in Nikolaev). I
looked out the window through the bars of the carriage, looking for you with a greedy gaze. Why
you were so unwelcoming—sad. And I, I, too, have become haggard, grown old for this
time. The chains left an indelible mark on both my face and my soul. Re-
Am I living through the ordeal that fell upon me with all its weight, with all its unexpectedness?
given...“ But youth always remains youth, not despondent
64. - PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. No. 15-16

and believer. “Be that as it may,” he ends the letter, “but six years and
I will survive eight months and will be released relatively young and
strong. And besides, the state of things in our Russian reality is
ity cannot be the same forever. For six years in all our pro-
the rotten way of life must necessarily undergo drastic changes and, of course,
not for the worse, but for the better. I am deeply convinced of this.”

The prisoner's health became increasingly worse, especially in the spring and autumn.

“I am overtired,” he wrote to the bride, “and I can hardly carry my cross.
I don't want to. If only you knew how much you don’t want to die.”... Only hope
on a date with her, she supported the one who was buried alive, who was decomposing alive,
gosya. “I’m waiting for you... Somewhere, either far away or close, it’s burning completely
dim light. It flares up brighter and brighter and floats towards me and calls me,
and promises me much, much happiness. And the night, the night, is so black. Motherland,
When will you dress in a light dress? “You won’t believe how joyful it is
me now after meeting with you. No more melancholy in my heart; no doubt
niy." He looked forward to exile to Siberia, where he was convinced—
the bride will follow him. “There you are just one step away from me and—happiness, happiness.”
Among the increasingly frequent attacks of the disease, he returns again and again
to this thought. “N. and V. will come to us in Siberia, the first will... treat people
Well, teach the second one, well, and you and I, if we can, will do both.
other. Isn’t this a happy future, damn it?” It’s clear how sad
he fell into trouble when, for one reason or another, a meeting with the bride was not
could have happened. “Should I say what I experienced this week,” writes
he told her.—The joy of anticipation, the fear of not seeming too sick to you,
artificial flowers buried in the heart for moments of laughter.
Lord, how naive, how stupidly I prepared to meet you. Poor air
new locks. The inexorable logic of prison regulations barely touched them
with its icy breath, and our dreams of a date burst like soap
bubbles. I'm tired, scaredtired of grief. God knows I stop loving
life. My health is terribly bad, and I have completely forgotten how to fight illness.
And why can one be healthy here? My individuality is here
literally became impersonal. I sit in large common cells, and like a sponge I absorb
I take in the little things of the hostel...

Compared to this literally and figuratively convict
life, the youthful years of hunger and wandering naturally seemed concluded
no paradise. “With what immeasurable happiness would I exchange my real
share for the past famine, adversity and wanderings,” he wrote to a comrade, with whom
Rome once shared the painful life of an unemployed person.—After all, there was
will, there were also fleeting joys to which he surrendered so selflessly, and
here... Here, in a nightmarish chaos, chains and shame are intertwined with each other
and hopeless, endless suffering that makes the blood run cold, and at 20—
After 25 years you become disabled and incapable of anything. Oh damn you
merciless fate that threw me into this living grave. With whatever
I spat with pleasure in your shameless face, if you could have
human image. Oh, damn you, ugly rock, with all your
titanic strength, and the activity of a slave who forges chains for everything noble -
nom that is on earth. With what righteous malice would I give to be devoured
to the hissing reptiles of the earth your dirty heart, if only you could appear before
me in the form of a man. Oh be damned, damned, damned."

And the disease took its toll. Life was burning out. How fruitlessly it passed.
How many bright, soul-elevating impressions were there at the beginning, and now what
the darkness—the darkness of a nearby grave.

This is how life is lived. Will I look back:
I see youth is worth it. in the distance
All on fire, at the top of the barricades
With such a banner. will in. hand.
"with

HER PROLETARIAN CULTURE 65°)
Irlimot: pondonoh and Nokhuit hanoto I
Is the present a thought, a sad deep insight 1!
I see “the youth of the past-—.11.0'P
to the Bespod 9 passes, and Tibnet in. film,
Heavy, shackled, ringing. lll ‚ogl tog
Blood from the heart is pooling on her chestunfathomable sorrow on the brow—
videgovn otoyaoern dressed tones and emertigvo’ darkness ‘without path’ me odi&
vdtoya ydot elno With a hidden guprek Earth? oto t, nonCham59ETsR e vazfam |
c. vmachotg- uoVot si: living life. RolkonaogiVeta:r”” E TET: 1019
‚eitovRoat ole vnIvokazazoveemu Wu: Yubiyu“te “Pim about mnzhgod in5opoo
tnazd,. .aruzhokhzhen Naletaya/ grozalonadiomitisya ucha onovyaetsi ma’ otb’ but
-ntamotono tveon Intepernemovml solo “and -no dwant--‚Oyatoyahe no apomm
-newly new and not the same days and not the thetan ‘Me iodine: in ChatavCech OtoyazoR
Darkness, silence, worms “For what? Thu ted\o from twisted A „een
`vn in teEN ‚ozozozochya ochego‘was born’ and ‘threads ‘iv’ YAR’ T ntesom a ten
‚ndokom n aovzaobtoena ‚eons ovyu na? MEbovn anenzhk ogoyaodoyaayo vn vyaom
Tsen o berRenzaen iio ‚voyavnhat ponnishvim t motlao mnyaodona Ye hynnyazvod
at the beginning of October 1911 in the Heredneka prison in Bolezhitsa,
The patient lying next to him was also one of the workers in a “eating manner”
described his last minutes. NES
“He came here to the hospital in Reotzy Mog himself
Neya

Somehow I could move, but the illness took its toll. very few... On Saturday
asks me: “Can I and RO eat to be on a date?”
with Marusya even for a few minutes, I would be extremely happy. I feel
that he would come to life." Then I dozed off. Suddenly he calls me and says: “Tell me,
Afonya, to these men, so that they put on their shoes and walk with God. What do they care?
I need it. And then, if you put a table, one end rests against the sky, and
others into the ground." The delirium intensified. There are no names. In the morning, at one o'clock
in the seventh I went up to him and looked. Esetite. Hey to your health,” I ask.
"9x, Afonya, if you only knew how much I don’t want to die. My God. But
I haven't lived yet. After all, I was just starting to live, I just wanted to live, and then I came
Death is rude and says: “Get your things together, let’s go.” “Where?”—Ask
I know - and why? Is it me? told you that I’m feeling bad here.” Then
suddenly burst into tears. He started sobbing so much that it seemed like he was going crazy. will shudder. Next we talk
he says: “Let’s write a letter to Marusa and Vanya. “I..rorovit.. will dictate, and youashi
Sew and that’s the end of it.’ I didn’t have to dictate to him, Bye. I turned away on the ode.
a minute to take the paper, he was already exhausted. a

Alexey was a highly intelligent person. I was dying. e
I really didn’t want to, but who wants to die and still be so young:
Yes, he was a nice man. To the highest degree. knowledgeable and orderly
which explains it; What did I love about him?

He was not even 25 years old. aviotiovden I

This is how the gifted ra died, tortured by the Tsar’s guardsmen.

from which, under other conditions, he could. would produce a major poet,

know" oretok for'
1

‚1the poetic legacy of the timeless, deceased Alexey Gmyrev`
exudes artistic brilliance. It has no.in,vivid imagery,
expression, nor the melodiousness of the melody. He, however, is like Bar
was not seduced by his muse. ‚zoanketsaeT

There is no shadow of art in my songs,

E. a

otozotsn Nit86Ya0t5n8 ERO iN5bOSH
he admits. } : vyanaoezeaim
py Of his creations --- his artistic creations, gmodl mot
in poetic form the confession of a worker; n sacrificing 'violence both idhat a
and 3. 5 {
freedom. b

p9d

Proletarian Culture No. 15-16
PROLETARIAN CULTURE. L, 15-16,
In the walls of a deaf and cold A and
Them. ‘porbvelayi oka: A SY
Only the last hang up will “understand” them
How? Izya} ‘extremely exhausted. ha
The one who, as I will, is bright. true,
Totu. kab, ay. without goiter. ‘knowing yy

And cool

However, we have not. rights: approaching our heritage
Tmyreva ‘with excessive severity. Onone only: the dead years when
his talent could not yet be shown to him all. inherent force - prison and
disease must, naturally, be detrimental. respond!’ to his work.
He himself understood this perfectly well: “Khobetanovka,” in which I am. presses
thought and feeling,” he wrote, “and therefore our creations are not systematic
of a logical nature. I hope ‘at. rays Yubotanovne to become more beautiful and strong
her. A. when this will be, it’s hard to say” UChigome5d nad M

Not in Gmyrev's poetry. and.nine pedithimeski, prolefursky. On and on-
Meka for factory life, nasnkum and rumble of cars, no images and melodies,
prompted by factory life and machine Paradise If by chance from the pen
him, sorveteya and, Abo INO this is zo’ AA rolls the complaint of the self-inflicted 1
perouhamaenyitt, poor man" igo0va phot. Novo ‘min 9’ word of mouth Nisha

Eh, you are life and]
Me) escho 10M 140 ^”Besnrivetnaya, I
utodocho 9. .aboutByam `"`WORDS9 NIGHT "berproeronyya to
NTO RPO aa korodyo ^^
„ext 0iO and ext ‘transition a ta o a
that's a lot younger >. VA already kfode. Pera G POYO
o, 4-4 Me O
raR. mot, ZEZMV and val “you, and AN
[54-29009 0 "rya to AI on
[1 ZHU in ati bass: bu Open, ochavoho v.
ATS. hedgehog NoYAU. 4155 oo A Cho r. | si RMO
mountains KOL, ara Ra a V VOO m bin
oyaop + Pr here ty 10 od zabofoyu:” 5: ‘I o E |. region ve 1 At
zb vi poGunachato a
Like ‘adZeloyv o’.”
0x5 In Volbve'NOE, CHAN. CR
at rubber "VE fence Mio G"
V. bed vimenney t OV: SOBO ekon CHO
How broken. I'm Cho, VYa
Nino hell RI noeen ‘For Ya rune
yes you go © need
: Yes. adversity: 2 c.
ahh | 39279; call me out; aalozzhosova
‘SHTOON$ACH ^ Nvochiotyivayakh G9y ‚mod2ь29.mmnnechtU zhokh` |
_ Patient 8 But From Sy

4

o
=

In a word, Gmyrev’s poetry is not the poetry of a skilled › ‘worker, not
poetry of the labor aristocracy, and the echo of feelings and thoughts is a kind
mass-producer.

All the louder, that revolutionary pathos sounds in “his poems”; lopsided vein
in the chest and masses. vazdoetomemorable: ‚the period of the first rniinin__

Wow
VOLAAAR, VASE aLO“ A 89
PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 67

‚polbaen ovio ypyanydechkh to hezYa

Zavotovok (1901-1908) until October. December "movement of 1905"

On the topic of the workers' uprising they wrote (several times. pp meter two from
which we here prizodizhoch a ZoeZae vi o Ebov a t

In: black darkness, moonlit nights

Moans evilchiabatoni ho ya “tooio: theo

Toips" formidable 'workers: 'Ivyneova toeaolaua

‚V p titers a k omoazhezoya netav. he

aotya:N me skh 9 Vene Uma no’ z9ti 9

99409 and ata t would be our mind;rdet Novi ubatsoya a, on

Yazi ‘vonnezhnaya E K about 3 ny I onnaG, piyavnogo govo

gas khnayaa ah BEHIND RYAM os: BUT ‘gynemaknooya’ it’ VF
BTevny I live in hell, _ E

awnings ‘endaeEn vom aoThe barrinades are growing, and the saccharine plants are turning yellow ©)
Rvetseya redlfawl:! o otoyaniyeya uod as TA
And nabatomatezhnene word" 25 edach
Bietihovo>evrinamo" |. ZAOT G
Death is a lie!“ Down with the side totaah.
_ and vivoi`honor to the defenders! ^o“ but’
In the black gloomy eyes and the zochotoya
ErODOCHI century. 6 nonobt. and. Nonshukh natseya, `Koyao. 5H
"OBO OPU yaniyaaech na: sko O otomoon, TsOYA vn chesiyavaot atva&
RA ь ‚VE uzvvig zkiZnr- WOW. antoodo onnatoooya eonnozhchChoov attacks
Ali here is a poem from the same cycle. ‚zdotsan 0100984

Under the "enma of the uprising" under the struggle.
In the name of labor and freedom? . Ari OshechTs
Flowing down ominously’ from here: slave”® not bad I
Like noisy spring water anilochi chioso ©
And quitting. evy challenge to curse ‘enemies; 040
Pressed. IR-black horror? I *P lochenya ||
They illuminated the solid gates: from my destruction he
Uprisings by the Great Fire mlng days 9% otidokhi I
I. anger burns in: rebellious ‘otiyooo AN
Shameful: rabekuyusha moteno doy ayzhk okt
We rushed, and api atdemo.
“For the city of freedom, for the will of N”
NZyachkak 07 i o Ra y i and Ron Ponnagozh to Potishtseva
IN PRVI AND OREINO and the eagle “LoCHUO Nopahvirio
E anya chLYG rea 561
In the place of the dead: people's fighters YaikoN
New squads are appearing; a Poztonk zoteza oddo 1
And in horror the fallen walls of the palaces; op otinove NY
And they grow menacingly"barricadyhtt-0oet 1 pet N -
I. angrily; ‘overgaya: IO ibra eG.
Nozornye chains and doyuzl cho9k op rotchiyat ‹ X
The one calling to the “country” rushes:/ photon ‹ OKI
“For freedom, wa: freedom, ‘for, freedom’!” 200t product 03

There was no for the prisoner, ‘knocked down alive, de r ii so-.
knowledge, such as the fact that ‘he is doomed to vegetate in’ kava. could yy ‚ horde whatever,

behind the prison wall, it's boiling! and fumbles tsya'bo auto
p eydokom tvbot atom-moyazhonT

4
Blagovest t veoniy, paschal blagovest, <
In the azure air: fun: pudat, == 10024 anlo(T
Only for me. funeral song. EN 591

And it sounds like memories of the past.

oh for"
'Vrrkh ny RI adversity, Ve 060 then
302t chinosisVeekh erodnil nozornyhateful ver" and Ar im
vn ayad VynoIvooimya’ right laoirannoy” freedom”. chatoZa mer dark,s even aN
The toiling people have risen like the sea.” oyaytsi aeedyo we hydotoya
Only for me” is a sad prank
Youth is burning out in the stuffy semi-darkness. gavoto
Blagovest spring; Blalovest, lvohalny!
Don't sound cheerful... I'm in prison; in prison: .

But let him himself, cut off from everything 5, live in Vog Co, with an iron lattice, walled up -
bathed “in a stuffy and dark cell” k.r 863ability to participate in the struggle,
he, like Gorky’s Danko, “snatched himself from hell.” ‘your heart, and lit, like
a torch, it will ignite with fire the enemy, and quite a lot of rebellion: other hearts.

Burn, my heart, yy
Not at the whim of feeling, according to Borya's desire
And the thirst for the great common thing is made of water |
Fight for freedom. homeland: Rodov A
Burn. Yours; gumsnlamago.
“It will cover a lot of such coerdets.
Burn, my heart is a jacquet-edged banner,
Which was raised by ‚raboniy: garikachi monaeg I

Kocheod I
From my “stuffy and cramped cell”! The prisoner's cue continued

No.
call comrades in the wild, despite the foreign resection, continued
to reap an armed uprising I snbt and arbitrariness, ‘for freedom and happiness
working people. ‘vanie ot yon vynoChovl Ohyt toya vi

SI lasts longer,
Better death than life as a shameful robber, oh
Come out to the street and your friends are right there.)
From their rotten grave houses in
Away powerlessness "Otanovitoojav glad oo 1 y
And forward. On the burning barricades: Behind e: |.
The traitor who is azy ri yin vi n o
Go out into the Korean street. mnyantson pchnito9os
To fight “above the burning” barricades!
It’s a shame to live under oppression, “value darkness;” (71080 PN
Death or freedom. Here is our pozuni izlnabal! it) And
O -VE ‚OTPOYA 88 o: 0:5.

And, despite everything,... he, Ny t ato. ‘battle. working class
will end as desired and from the destruction caused by the great

social storm, will be released in a one-way fuck 9 rubles, Free labor.
Les Ah, Young: viniorgisonite pebuho
Full of beasts: their part in this ©:
Proudly the leaves are torn into the ears of alekroty nebevt®
And it rings and sings: how excited do you feel? in t
And it burns immensely. I will grow:. ova N Bot no.
The forest is noisy" "Heavy" sinks: roll outthunder,
Clouds gloomily stretch across the sky
Wildly wind hums: ovo ›sweepingvrugomeo here is geo
Gathers a thunderstorm... `Darkness is looming: = 38
eo sun years. your defiant qyaayo Vad ody:
a g a
in We have long groans of impotence. r LyiN: “Ibnbto NONO 28
Young oaks burn with anger and revenge
Against ‘Tmysvekova and Chkelezia’ in fate, that I
Vs. slave tsetsei and''navilei?' E a
Forest In she and ‚38 `deyatot

ashoai mbat

x
16 MANIFEST MIND, vol.

and the Sun of the world will illuminate nature,
Asek o8N will flood the battles, the sea. bright, rays, ogle aisa I

The UN will not find any slaves on it, nor any slaves.

o and nazacho ZAZ ru EXACTLY Zo, BUT. OE. ILO. © SONVVDO
hkigla kada kazan a. otoem bontoRoSH lad ins ‹onnononmoreno' ‹enafto out
‚here6o retedoshi

- 8228 I’m coming. And A E te ‘onNo-
SOVOVYABGO’16528/> worker significant ‘mebto me i. `\01 i g Personal
experiences, Love for the bride, which gave him both ‘in freedom and then
in prison, so much’ ‘joy: and: consolation. The eyes of the struggle - its chief -
noah inspiration. There is almost no letter to the bride to which
the prisoner would not have included the poem; full {paska, oaths and truth.
Having given my whole life, all my thoughts, to the cause of the workers’ class, to the cause of the proletarian
revolution, he took for himself; alone‹ migg-world‹nervous date,
oaunoveiiv in oodachyu0 oyatoe M
= HAPPY moment. I don't. I'll forget

Your barely audible, “I love you” and oh why
With him I'm fearless everywhere

Approved en. dm pi Boryuv, I rejoice - itioyur toy and enochrimev oavit VK
Cheragli che6Chdya osh at ot In borybe’vanechaee imevobeduchen ote--man om we
eontoNata ovo srniy “Otralvye darling“i‘en to stdop. oe khnshanouto
I gave "tvvyaotsi" to our people. patidyaofa Etadua.
ana ® |, In All the heat of my chest,

I gave it. All; health, strength.
And passionate thoughts. mine,
And what did life promise me?

PIb, mafnb” o {a1a=0 x

u oenani FN ATOS |

“Sometimes a feather. the poet's daughter Uzo Fraya was dearer to him
all people, E. 9e, image; yh according to FRA I, 368 VRU -VEVO nodrivym-
R

ny and ‘NebZhida
noni phtatsuiton | Shiyaovavocheny

Her lIchiko, pale. sad | odot on

d Okay, ‚okay, yeah; malva, belt dochol. Yanyaod 55 those

you oe ondedul fi: and

ode to 'cornflower blue. oh giltog. ennunchedu1
3 ‚brow bowl - two. irutika loznye,. zeu in enzodoChOT.
‚Chevsosched. Gooi 2nd comb, eyelash beauty,.s Una 968 i. ZannayHF
I ask my mouth. WH `- oo century g glad to armor, OH. Pynatsvatney
58 blossoms of the wilds: empty. ‹ about voknonivonnatao

in ‚ve` ‘hair. TOM ev OINEY V 1 |, pale ‚Kirkhadeć

and heavy, ZhZ 0 eo I vvoolyoY Vankon Tsao“

: to
onoeENESYA-ovonaya M

s

CHA

Bottoped [VA o AYA MY ‘tie
-aruya NonooRy y vazh basement song of the poor man: in) it ‚Chtne]]

Her breasts are two fragile lilies in tatetsed [-—maht
Shoulders—marble, forest, snow, _... oiraachetn In the left
The hands of the free maidens oh! dtnP oootseoy
Green eyes but: YA ‚m my ooo EmoyYa read

Favorite girl for VVEV Vna and. Link 1 ODi oe Ube,
— ‘man and “odes rut 8.010 5 ME en”

|

N919820 1 vovomoya owl storage

I love you wisely: Zyenkd ^ neoZRiTONAVEIO")

atategos `Chepovanag zo Božolinya 9] ennyakavoi% voyazokntnio?1
d:
Me:

Oh my friend, I want; so that: vietradnyae” newYa, Yamnyavt,
_ Just like at home, we were equal.
5 70 s
m. OSAREAYANICHN tel acc

‚Updnan. tnMaoo le in you in about z
The life of Alexey “Ryverev” is an elephant: so’ ‘tragic, 910’ of him could not
developed a large noe Notbiu,” that he doing nikah cannot be judged,
however, about what he_could hedelt: Released from prison, into freedom
new country, he would undoubtedly take an honorable place in the forefront of our

proletarian poets.
At that time, Lenoya Gmyrov’s creed, titus of the working class—
„OO Noshare of the future, Leather, animal creation, breasts, torn out: pony, about-

‚ zeyannye k k import, Ra VOY le vvotavsyavtood ‚ otooven 1 avooo:. Binwannechet
&zcl 03a— voa Chodlavum otoy, ` mov serdiel: In the new avoli K: 3 t’
I lost my mind. ovmaoni Indignation and revenge: evuchi. inatethaoniodE “Yong
‚Atonytsi p atvdya zo Blionor uye. blichnotanonaniyne waves vn mannarogav {
vozotsatelochi ue} _ ‘30 Yukorotnovornochpadutostomping from 82 NENJ 0:57 ivdtoO
vinidno aboutwombZnayesovo aoiyetischeinna but inmotoveYa

With revenge, yyyyyyy I will redeem it in an instant
Isna collapse: ina rabevono ‘buildings
Free Esnia - OTAN "&b Vo: UE 908+

\akokhonot ontenedto9d. c. myn O
For a poet walled up alive - fa! Onego, this faded moment will not come -
drank, and we—his survivors—are left to fend for the executioners,
He beat his young life and his great talent, his passionate:
udite damned, damned, "zraaay and ten ovo in ‚
VoODyakm Nom. SCIENTIFIC Cha ava V. Fritsche. —
`schino o, dB *65N EBKKO V
nom omntovato amukh N
oPo you naenzho I

To convene the second: Veroatsiekoo" Conference
Proletkultov: - | her

ar ud ozen Epshchoevyo "aNorma of representation.. ots: ofoi No4 Sh
7th air conference about NVA V b gobeom: * a
Ivanozo-Voznesensk provincial Proletkult—5 delegates.
Moscow City Prolbtvulto 5 delvrans.
Petrograd city Proyetkunt - “b delegates!” ”
Tula provincial! ChChroibtkult® 5” Ielegates:.”" ^^
Provincial: Proletkults Chobytayu t every” Chdöyegata.
“City and county Irolyoznuyazhy are thirsty for 2 delegates.
District and factory Proyetkults EDYY 1 delegate each.
Central Komi‹6t "Vevroyoeyiskovo Sovetyo' Prole and delegates.
Organizing Bureau 16’ E II ao e delegates
Editorial board of the magazine “Proletarakaya” Cult 508 eti.
Revision Warrior All-Russian Council there are 2 delegates.

Center. Com. nova fese. Vova 1 delegate; b
Center Committee Union of Ravovyashkaya Te OnyiO'i "Socialist Culture"
tours - 1 delegate,” Ingi Emu” watch T 98
Third International—1 “Yaeyerayaya” in houses - me, and
All-Russian Center. Use Cam? Sonetovoo E business.
vol. Com. Ross. Commun. ``P&rtyi-T ‘delegate. ‹

Seross. Central, ovot g in franozy, ny that delegate. foreign: 1,
CR Committee | ommun.. Union r its 4. delegate. ‚r Vankh.0d080

People's Commissariat ‘delegates.
Socialist Academy 1. delegates slkooge V

Political Administration of Revi “Vovn”/ “Sov” of the Republic: -1 delegate.
Main Committee, Trudarmi iso delenatak ‚clouds Nom.

lanaz upyo we. Vatovgo, n.v. Lai
2516 "PROLETARIAN KUL TURA. I

: in 6 iniogo6ba Ninanooko“E (%
c. amunedi ME zakh V. Nono 68

‚m Jo fon N ny O
mani NI a aa oe EriVvnn vn bo bi ka} {6
oko $ ok i® Sov tya ofee 9 TATA: bonds of warrior OG Vyyaeo

vget i pon fifotsiuio ny
Newly born In her |

erevaloniiy Skoloe”“will be discussed” by the Vyuatnoy COMMISSION, I. ©
approval of the Conference.)
Clubs of “Proletarian Culture” And 1 delegate each.
Individuals are invited to; decision of the Organ. Bureau.

‚Con f. il85nnat40 en nain ($:
terrible stoodi and r! o Order, yy Nerentsii, zatsetved, vone1

r s aayunaramestoviriya t zonepegto a atigoiro ep) PenVo5N and Khamova

her oc. 668: i. to vtonChotanChaKH (adotya

Volume -i-zha | "Rozhon "envegotamochi todento.

Flight methods a m yy online, in

-92% about Warfare oatoomnaeYag

NN t, o I NII I At

2 Samples of trade about t o y te Ba VO 6

Ortknivanny pi report: `V. Call him amoma. to the mayor
Breakout sessions. < dinlerovatso tovni vatodetso java ‘vN (9)

- oScientific section: (report to dobu lazy Cho mtoonaietnod o te ev)

Literary and Publishing Section (report B} PEZbNov). etnd:000o itoonjomeoya

- nal section" (long V; Omvyayae). (rote 9зх zanodtogenyavy - $8

Musical and vocal communities” (Dona “V: Yeravi about ‘azhatvchtve” g 885

Section of Fine Arts: ponnoniiene to ‚niyaoted .vanokhikh

Kotubna section (don: 542) Dodoniva). ha. niyato08a. vidhtokeniya. (9

„etamine: sbischinetioe uv ‘.vepynichto vnduto Fojah ov us ozagolo

Organizational section: &)t0` ‘irofesvionayavny "6010367 r 8 OYrolet-

cult (report by V. `Inatov), - 6) then the age of vow 6” ‘stu i) 10 btipen=

diyakh and otipendiats (report Ou Krivtsov) it ‘0984 viduto onzhV 1 1:

*yinichto noyantsovaya 0: 88t905 van: orvtEE V Unnapani o E.
cosegoti notes delevarai" Conference."
SANYA ou, hyya EN m HVE for hnnid & zotannedpito om ozashchoyao (9 {
us! and Each delegate, going, for, must’ have a mandate
under the seal of the organizations to which it is delegated, under the signature of the chairman

body, and “secretary: sbidisnya measure # snnaden I potebiy OTR” 15
-2nd ‚ 2) 'Dedegate, must. "bring raised 'stamped'Below is the questionnaire
sheet with proper signature and seal. ‘atoomevi

8) New. questions “can be included in: order: days: conferences not
later, like two years later, openings. For this reason, TV writing is necessary.
In this form, inform the ‹Org.. Bureau. the one with the rainy OVO surname
AI tear up the “diechatanayesva typewriter St: Oekaemilyarakh theses.

who attended the OAyatsikh con, its delegates register in
il fi voe dchii ovndu then in "vinezhitbod 'ovyaaYa (o

turf and its sections: that Uzte och
c. vuzpoUu aonkwanlaono mer: (and

Busy" 9 yen oO twice, dev In the morning from 10 to 2
RAVEN 56: : x a -nICH ‚kayaochokh‘

2) Each member of the conference intends to take part in the work of one

from sections.

About some lanes having OVs

I'll close it
#1") You're crazy oh oh
5) To m `Chbridka of the Day'. Ve |. And 7 years ago
a similar word is given for and against. p 38 ato aZobVs ava SS
6) Personal statements 3 at the end of the meeting in minutes. I

Pa
<" PROLETARIAN UL cheers 54816

7) When voting according to doBtadam, the first one is given
, and
against 10 minutes, and ry in 3 You VM =

8th personal war guilty o u ie Oda from
sections 10 minutes and 5 companies from t to mo: according to YOU.
xo) oEach oence, chooses: rey j et

and secretary; prezi? the mind keeps its protocols. commitments and asserts them.

10) Each ‘section adopts a resolution. and. choosing from your environment
din US ABOUT Nvto
ry K m in on p m, (yandnodefne I vnnezkCheat
vlotsed [oh Najaya * no field Chatoscho ochEya
|. „wine O Ak eta.

1) Name sake
2) Area of activity and simply service

of the specified ordnance of CVII (list separately. exact? ry and

and others). taraiteriotiii: resi I on ryu ie: uu
There are industrial enterprises, < workers. $ their mb: 200
3) Time is running out. ischoria. I'm gee
4) imodo t r sanitization of the office...s0t vym
thetas Ros. Com. Parties, Departments of Arod, “06 fish.) Chervot Nigo”aCh
5) ooo y organiza om artich orlva a
‘exactly, and what was the help?’ ‚
6) On what means does the organization live? ‘#819986 ominovlue-
7) Report on the activities of the orgy yavoivomya 90; about existence." (By
possible and will let you knowe #:3 digits): $ to 1) ENDNeo vvyao. chpotvdyom - Onega children
a) What departments does the literary and publishing organization have?
ski, theatrical, fine arts" musical=vocal,
club, children's, organizational and intrusive and others)?! vipno’)
6) Which studios worked, how long each studio worked,
ren was in every studio’ studio people, their social” (workers,
lopo‹bolur workers" peasants, bourgeois, intellectuals)l or party: (whom-
- nopy zhet, ev rsar "anarchivt" non-partisan) composition? fruit) atatu
c) Which studios worked in competition with the iso) akim; reasons? oh,
d) Social and party composition of studio heads?

e) Social clubs of the USC of Areofiya
y f) Yours in EAN HER and on which oviyas?
in the afternoon” WHAT Cho ’iadan ITrbieneunny fe 'Zgo`etushchiny vto bami
‘cleodic institutions? . ‚vytouanchekol but my ya NnlzennatCho satARI ›86
3) What is included in the publication and why is it joint stock? Chat CHOOo Sh Vto
` ymeioyana v) avietnobiska” ‘catch yaaaie DAY Zy Bani | seed-
sensitivity? „otatvgoy i maenikoy noshazheogdan 85
dn inu oodVaniv: prophetic ‘reading ov and every 68 r NY,
nemaokit ‘p Zzlene ribochtveli ekazida stu o day
they vm Theatrical rönertuvre chern o ‘staviy6ya). 9“ 99$ 88 ve
zlonvot hvon)iMuzaeainno-choral roar 588 - it Caller ID 58 #86
|. productions) 988 TAN geokh.. atvtevod” about 8995 3: etinachona
o) What achievements in the studios, _ K: and I.
Proletkulta nile> ee n nyinedefnoH tyemvgle9

p) What determined the success and failure of both; and
od 01 torubkonno was" about: Fraruny and, oh. For the families,

choral, propaganda, evenings, etc.) In oa o o Tea o
bonscho “Ato Travaniyev ‘li’ and Notruytor Rav VUZA As ny 10 you
r) How is it felt?
‚nts, 8) What is the saree like?
9) The exact quantities of t ok wu ov, I DU KOOd tedai in my
yy tions, but both r 9 lunch karat I <

MottoVechai vyr in ont?" yy water
11) What kind of food is there in (3. For

chm. <
„CHROLETARIAN LANGUAGE CULTURE.

The TI organization and the Bureau are asked to “respond to. everything. questions: maybe
uh

detailed" # p

link to the questionnaire’all ‘available’‘printed’ material.

All2more ‘or’ us ‘having Significant ‘interest, will be’ ‘printed in

Noah
tVtog.

input

ada pakozhonak EN talc appearing
In Vazeta UEbmmunis“ from! May 1990 item no.
``Fazvta is published. V! small factory
‘Species 89 hedgehog herbs M
z otoya: zone I t 8
Proletkult cat. > ed0yo” and tka
 Fishing very different
-©t educational robbery’kakion (until now
has since been carried out by the bourgeois elements of the 'i''ra-
sideways movement. `Completely torn ^
with the reporting method, ‘iricotor’ working-
frightening) casto tired” and exhausted
from daytime. ‘I have to work for hours at a time
lecture above what’s worth in terms of development
“tonarinkau“ so why bluptatetes” can’t co-
brother with thoughts and -. o © o Runs away
"b'lectures. Rakova” ZEZalima
enlighten 1 IN mokratov.
Ne1Vt Iropetkulte ‘speaker ‘must’ be
She is not the leader of pdisnuseyi iri’chem
ovobtunderstandings are developed: jointly; *oya-
- lecture He doesn’t want to come? Uh,
nii toss” ‘himself, as a worker
fucking man,” and in the’discussion’has
but to introduce something ‘advisable’! He
eperetet'o be passive 'it becomes
independent, what’ is most ‘necessary
communism: So the methods explained
intercede most directly

and they are lazy. and
"60: yE.
carefully

systemv,
Whatever the system
r ly yh already’ since school. "Transport-
twisted ‘proletariat’ ‘labour’
tivola ‘knees to bring’ students to’ ‘eore-
otic conclusions ‘simultaneously’ and’ parallel-
- work: they will do the work themselves.
In the hostel, at work, this
0 leads to that, I don't. b
we YOU A 'learn, b,
at least about "virzhNYO and
‹libsobnye;. can they be productive? ‘i’ soyeon-
It’s important to find joy in your
labor Now it’s still impossible to foresee: “in6x
new opportunities, but they are won in
What is the essence of the method? who 'seeks
`with time to develop’ unification ‘mental-
oto’! oe labor: It'll be more
"106 ‚eculture" and 'resolution of the most important
no question! communism which” is
-vayusoya akochib orki toiivan raz o-
-body of people”! t U

NS eg. c. torus Moscow
and toya ‚jur 4 ‘Not all. bov. Prolotvulti PI POIINEN => B

Oh na, vtarokaya. Culture” or as a separate issue.

mango

th I AE
and the Second All-Russian Conference. `The flight of flights is assigned: "On.

t NOV:

:.Comrades, get ready! _

Organization” VM 5} .
`naming ` “Proletarian Kuletura“) is not-
bypassable; kah special komlkunnistiche-
‚svan kuchturno® educational organization-
“OYYA, And collects the ‘most’ Neredovye
And developed, strength? oletariat..
adach. consists ‘first of all’ in that; to
a E\x ‘construction c. 'areas' iwuki
and art to: the fight for the evil windows
ыы ‘over b ranuayoii. Ir oletkult dol-
“veins during the period of oruba NY ‘support
ry uvennuyu “Aeizn” and “interevy, Ebbchikh,
wound duova 30 ''work, concentrated
96 essential: ava, ‘internal
but to connect” members with “movement and retraction”
remove indifferent elements. Next, Pro-
letkult should open to the most developed
Sironetriamvoviozniova | lvorcheecat! “oo-
knowledgeable. grudauv‘nwuie! M art.
A committee formed from initiative
labor and: to: E representatives of various sections
avodekih vommunietichesvih: chcheek, .
ve he is very good, produces a single
‚az ‘those about sri than’ after
gods" he sings "undress you" on -
grandfathers: plaznnata VE
It is formed
In the Instructor Department - it organizes
so-called ‘courses’ for managers,
‘where’ ‘theoretically ‘pass’ `methods Pro-
letkult in, connection with various” methods
application of 'art" oh" 'nauyy: Very
it would be desirable to have the nearest school
sti:bpetsiaaistov" 3 ""oblavzhi science and

up to 19290-20
OE us 3 cha NI Tsey" creation
in various working conditions
-inubs and aa in’ ‘notory con-
caesirrueleya all' TWO and 'public
life of the participants. Cha
-3Clubs should have oao yy
`dbtteratures: and’artificial. "t HE
from. oh Literary? `‘68ETZIA, ‘in the second
KhnU o read ‘critically °`phases are collected
"This is self-made" - the work of scientists
Fatherly strangers. ‹
'ieep tb)' Zhora section, 'if 'zdvibnnnnno, with
‚ Noboliri or Bestrom n
’c)Dramatic" action; ° oAE tion
. Spruce of dialogue and Iroch! b
p IN t)Sezhtsia” isobrizitennyh eva,
enivoniev, applied art; 106-
-ready to teach to appreciate “eating”,
meeting with exhibition managers." 6'.

><

g 74

g ’ start ut

A All-Russian, Council, Prolet
? "you

we are places

t

About Przomdions: 5

ana pb! possesses. one r out8-zee

the listed sections. t
35 VE, I was waiting for the divas of Vadcha

supply, For 9ргЗ And Ro at

tami, journal
Izh workers

all about
4. The teaching department should be pro-
grams and distribute managers to
different sections. week should happen
have at least one discussion
approximate evening, we
a) Political history
(the program is very economical)
„mya, the doctrine of economic development).}
6) Scientific. ry 5 depending on
“the existing forces are always necessary; ‘on-
will clarify
at the essence. Groletcultasi creative methods
‘the qualities of proletarian culture
„5. Editorial_Part. `Ivdateldtvo
„magazines si, live nor „produc-
Aa ovovazzokhnun cha
International ato, “Vetupayet willow”
- "bVYAZ., with. "all. Bomm Unistiche kimi, king-
about tiami ©, purpose. education with [roletvul-
com, and exchange, experiences) “Piterafur U ri-
connection, to, `Vevrossiysvomu Pre let-
Ah. I am a close contact. s and in:
RN

from m: All-Russian, Council
: Proletkulta.‘

VK: 'happened here. charged, "oh
‚AITOYAOAEI AND VOEN 4
city, about: Moscow, Ro Vozneseg
Ambova, Tula, TV, to “Rybinsk, * dya.
Binsk, Saratov, from the Organizational
Bureau of Ukraine, „Kavnaza | i’ and i) from
egoho i. ok AU

In the order of the day, they stood, oron:

jav

0’ Vserobsiyekom.. UrofarozhryAtiOm
"bbrn. writers, workers. n university yatag
„ 2).9scope and nature of work Prodetvuzt.
NEED, things to do, . Nata

in”) |
The rinyaly are the following, the resolutions:

And

this

7. about 1st_ All

7” 4th All-Russian Departure, Council “Prodel-
"cult, having become acquainted with the works of 1

"letvulta, this is organizational 6
convocation.in
‚ writer

I didn’t write about the meeting
ah. 4920-t. and sya “according to the decision
All-Russian “Conference-Iro”
yuro p
Ossyaisky, 1 riding proletarian
and be. atTs.V" roller shutter
cult, obliges members of the “proletkulto”
in the Org.. Bureau. spend | `printed below
punishment I |

yy fa

‚p V:receivingly) to evaporate and animate |

this order, the members of Mroletvult leave
Organization, Bureau, All-Russian. ‹fezdoproletarian
of Russian writers is convened independently
on behalf of Porroinakakiy other eNrolet
cult. oaonua ten in

Ach vmigeen

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

xo @sectionsustrai wat of sour cream 5udo-37
She felt the evening. about reports, music
these Zhe na) Na, and can ma

ny ‘discuseli.o

kul-,

and proletarians

No. 1516

Aka z5nezta
SI, 43. onakot v0t50o

Jan.

hearth a.
atschnide

ki p

svt if.
M VO ine
otiroletarekoy dnery,

nae Iz pr
ml U: either.
information, satisfaction

tsoVar-

class

VTA

lat
Zoglio growl his pro-

doing the 1st point given -

ooesov and oyabgol watering must have a document

from a reputable organization, witness

talking about their work as a writer.
_ 8) Shisatel-workers use the decision-
`—in a common voice, writers are not workers—completely
and congress are issued

in a flat voice.
912 Chaeirava 16
1 by this commission, upon consideration of the
E pr. n entry of the questionnaire.
5) In addition, etc. YOU are invited from
Fuck the representative!
Vi, d - KR: vp, you about ©.;
ov fvezhoyo gorodekoyo) . no
„city, Ivanovo-Voznesensk province-
I am about zone rey
sweat) on the order of the congress: E:

1) c) Current: the moment of the proletarian task
"what) literature and aeslu ‘a-woteda
t a About proletarian creativity,
‚0c)‹Ozlaroletarskaya criticism. 1
to »^South Ossetia All-Russian Ia
‘union’ of the proletarians. innovioday. battle is poisonous
opti:b)5 Approval: of the charter.

rr „Sevd.sovvatna. 0 ‘Ovjatabri 3 pod.

#. No., r 0 Vsorosoisky Prafossionalny.
oh, proletarian writers. ss.

unification; . ‚proletarian ‚writers
pubaiots, chvritins, fiction writers; and yao-
_these, and workers: in: science) should
„to carry out for the purposes of economic and legal
howl: protection. their interests; like: section
t in response: Voerossiyskno Erofoe-

Union River'. Eznya what?
‚„‚Igeoyogic: same, work: ‘unification
` leads. No.: Prolegkulftah; organizationally and
-dorzoozhi, worked: sv VA el t
re nea 999 ‚mon. eogodninotagoh
73) On the issue of V o

vienot ZAZ otninov |

04th Congress of the All-Russian Council of Arma
` after a long discussion
-@ solution; the specified professional
The union does not.create a visa issue

2nd: ‚Voeroooijovsky Ebonferences: g

`to the point
Aya
& Yo, question, L ly the nature of the work about
Nneeedu letkulta..Nenivchya
going to the exit. bovetovoa 1 ‘targets p
organizational and creative development. :action-
“after all, a) oaozhuchanivie I” zhefB-
nae ino ov et mzoya kmas
„Wu, first of all, third of the day - `
"pretty much all" ults: from undershot
through our studios. responsible ministers
-fucking-organizational and creative forces
VT area proletarian: culture it
education, mz of them sick - indicators -
ny groups, by special: industries: industrial

*

E..51<

otey

+

9;

BATH‹

<

nonyae on 9.-N and zhekhzido

7:2: 118
No. 15-16

legarian creativity... regularly. . reports-
in creative achievements. pro-
"detvulta. in front of prolegal masses,
“conducted” this wide propaganda and
ideas of proletarian culture: _. vtaano
“For these purposes the congress entrusts Ts, K.
it is a cult, ‚organize: weights. . "to yourself
central, . "On a world-wide scale,
studios in all. odyasgazh, activities
NOT. EvoZ Ren {80

I am Diya, the establishment of strict unity,
|. ‘and organizational, ov. "works
pozh odetkulga, imputed, nobyavan-
"nose"
question. to the “2nd All-Russian Conference”
tion. Proletkult in detail. ‚designed
barking. © from Afeshma dressed rotitoek

justification.
avy you
then

s
she ke
The result attracts the attention of all provincial officials,
„city and district, Prodetkultov, on
organization of factories
remote controls “sotlaeno AAA” Rocky Pro-
In vain Not her

G V r bag
5.19’ 888 rai ‘know)

Tue

evetovoya y <
roll ‚kul ulti. _ r

} 1291
in ri, FOR rad s local. Izh 'gadeshe'
NEW 3 drama studios
Thetkult is intensified, worked lodgo-
Developing a script for the anniversary of the Red Army
-army: I "Besides"vticheskikh. ‚works. V. stu-
5 ‚proletkult, training is underway; classes

about general education subjects. oo’

February.in; palace; sgroletharsnoy. ‚kul-
there was a big non-concert performance,
dedicated" to subdevshchina. “Red!” army.
-IN. program. were listed: in‘ vna, v.4

‘paintings performed dramatic. stu-
din proletkulga, concert. when
participation of the choir. and soloists, musical-vocal-

‚nogor department. climbed through. and, iri. syazaityai
Live theater studio. Povg
hey.Detrograd. In the distance: Proletkulta
`soon the first book will be released
y la `children,. written by Comrade

Ogomolov: book, gracefully, orsaimro-
I t Yudvaglaviem. "Dawns". n
proletarian school; music
Proletvult opens an opera class
ensemble.

„Chetrogradl 18th April in the palace of Leroneshar-
Coyscultures took place: . 1). morning" mamiti
Lenskikh, events, 2), public. dispute no
<zema "Culture of the Prosethariat" and: 3) frames
-wowzert sn nvvnoztaeu

Metrograd. Students! musical you
‚Nroletvulta was arranged; andintervyy. Zhvontsert.
This concertona, confused produced ‘pri-
great sadness. Especially, I am present-
shim. liked it, performed by children, galona

; area and game pubdiva, ar:

on, vv bargaining. Call 9 ToztovoE NE
Zheevsk, Vyatka Hub...

to the skhnoma, prodetkulte. the general thing happened

‚so razieochien. Literary, production. "On

‘at this meeting the elections of the Orvaviv took place

r

CHROLETARIAN CULTURE.

Proletvulga add on this > ry

whom. Tip 1 'Prodet- <

675

tion. commission for the production of ilan, etc. me-
tods for the upcoming ones. tah: work. and
- .Bovovichi, Chowtgorodekoy lips, In the end of April e-
for local. women's section, was arranged
‘performance... There were artists! az. ro
a ny: “Jews” EPO te UZhOS
‚Tomdrv.Gubironetkultom. suggested by Zey
county organizations to allocate m more
capable comrades and second them
to the student's studio. proletvulta,. When
this provides 3-14 choirs from each ‘county’
E and echeg, u tNIlNa ‚8. eyes
i.e. service in the city of Tambov. oao tu,
„Kirsanov, Tambaries lip s. t March, ‚at
^ flowed: ‘fly, an artistic
studio: They will be accepted into the studio, CheNo
members of trade unions. 1:
2 Gafov, “Tambov provincial, flown-
cult. ‘recently’representing himself’ ma-
"lazy" and barely noticeable musical-artistic
personal cell, leaving equal to its
“through her crack” the organization of the Luroletarian choir,
o A your a in: B
maoayareo 1098 <

830506

Tom 'were, 'open classes. music singing,
‚artistic: readings (recitations - and.me-
ь VILLAGES, ZORCHOGRAPHY, etc. all kinds
ZVVEa ontoom meni OP

) The result of skillful staging of work
r: These classes were truly transformative.
and, ROV CHU Vn From orFdt presetaravoto
art. 1:

Particular interest is shown in mud-
Val-artistic, art.,.This
captured interest. even the youngest ones. Children,
which are noisy: the note of THESE in, pro-
re 50: ivnoin: y
: I'm howling. ‚local. "Izvestia", "even
enemies, revolutions, `bourgeoisie,. very, very
blows and is surprised to see “the children of the proletariat.”
in the temples of art. t torus and
performers 5505 blo
ATS Tver. 24. favryaya ‚compiled, extended

meeting, councils of the regional prolekhcult-

& this meeting. it turned out that the ra-
to which. until now. por. velproletvult,
-You can, without any personalities. transmitted externally
muumod department of otivrobraz Now st.
hard work, where it appeared. byztvore-
stvo, ‘prodetariat, no. nyazanon 62: am

After a long debate, it was decided. convene, about
`citywide > ‚conference” ‚rovogyazili”
March 10. ‘zovvvnoykh en mozhenakh 80
‚"ovGver. ‚Obvegom. prodelkulta-vomendirb: for
nana, locals. Soviet courses: female workers
factories. “Victory of doses,” Bazanova, member. 59-
‘vet proleskult. ‚ I'm a pumpkin

„Kostroma A. fozhryaya, consisted of a meeting
"Prezikium ®, Proletkulta" and new re-

Chenault; 1) kootruiroly Presidium, floor
`to collect ‚ set ‚ duty
members, organize." nri nnube1Artist-
‘responsible, workshop’ zuetanovo faboga
in: literary, artistic,
dramatic and musicalno. zones 10086

Kostroma. From 1 smart. in the workers' club about.
detkult, opened levtsiya-conversations with teztra
Radular. "zanaziya" I'll give it away < feshchano
| Martha. ivnotaoki yaofatt,

about may oegorob, "Voenimm proleynuatom
on the occasion of the two-year anniversary of the Red

On

aria would be clearly the concern of the air-
Iaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaint doesn't from the Red Army. 1?d hem
-7 oBryanek) Oryol cube. In’ your mind-fe-
‘liar troletnuyat life’ ‘reorganized. WHAT
‘we’ll hear’ from the local trainer; © 'reorganization
Proletkult" has become great! " work
uteagrannay ‘zekshiya: 'Snavichzheya uluzniy' re-
hi Pranienie” “proletkulvna/““ sbstazno” Tiz
‘yauchishih workers proleniultovaev “in
-””‘bvdobev) Syaratovekoy lips: You’ February No.
sbyane K kat rayuno-dramatic vective chy56-
Letkulta was delivered 2 ‘snentakaya; at
OE VA Nor apparently liroetkulta‘yanko-
"ya0y EE `bvushchenn 22, ` vrupnoy, sailors lo 9k-
olyatbyadenohe mesenogo otarnizony “2: pvevgo,
including. vyudaoinentakaya, ‘organized
-in the SN section of the front, 12 snacks were supplied
`sticky; there were 16570 taelovents
oo the reviews of the newspaper Ser' and
Hammer"; ientennoevt ‘heatrical-dramatic-
evkoy ‘vection’ chtrinits’ everything’ ‘more and’ bonwe
Chiirezviye sizes solo. guachovey enyi
Serdobsk. On February 29 at the People's House there was
`Anegintoenectacle ‘diya’mobilized-
of these l Tosokonchaziy msiniyaa, Rucheteya sp%-
ChakN'Rrunnaya'proletkuzta was torn apart
`Baaktnaya` and Vesa Kraebvekogo: “Groom” and No-
chewing line." According to reviews of the local newspaper
take and “Molokv”, fuck “names” Ibonntoy
CJSC te s9ertvolan otm hyie.a
schbshibirevi “Edited by pronetnuztt
the collection “Laughter through the tears of a race” was published
catch: Veyoyaotserkovoy; preededazhenya” ro-
letkulkai chairman of the torkomietR VE.
'Obornik in' art 'edition' will be
`rabiroetranen‘in the amount of 4000‘Evvezm:ONo
factory districts; 'vbbrniv '`6de-
Ebren “pubkonyegia; ‘feces recommended
book' 'its teachings 'vgapkolah PR steps! and
JAV CHEKONVZO Diya varostvyza votovinihh note
\, Yaroslavl: 5" Ka: "election took placeclub council. It’s time for the new presidium
to call for a two-week period
conference for the ''creation of the Iroletnult'' and
in advance `prepare the ‘necessary’ for this
goals ‘materials. In this way for a long time.
“a ripe need ‘in’ proletkult; iv-
`one time' ‘awaited her on’ pages
local' press; results in real’ forms
we. All attempts to unite the cultural
educational activities’ ‘in’Yaroblavl
Yana I utem, at least in view of the ‘central
club, were not successful. Creation
`nroyavekulch ‘powerful flyby’ `about’ -
‘unity of all clubs; cultural-enlightening-
zelnnkh ‘vomivsiy,’ kruznov i. T! 668-
will conditionally put an end to the #chaos in this world
‘the most important branch of ‘local language’. co-
which “reigns ‘until now’ when work” grows
walking ‘apart; without a definite plan, without
unified leadership centers
Eagle’ What a great question! o`necessary”65-
Proletkult buildings; noty “before” y-
celebrated; it" broke up 'due to otbuzsoiviya
workers. zgo} cha y a nochrarytamachd
’ Yumolenek” Smolensk ‘governor’ will pass-
vul 'to create 'literature! ©1у-
‘diyu’iri “proletvulte; ‘converted’ ‘mo vvem
proletarian writers 69 sec
zazunit’ in the established°° ‘literary

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

m NY 2 BN club, van ‘bpivaishae sau-
Chen and Irolet Zunya I Eotdoyat & VvoKiliyava

r. g nai uzt Zbbbschaeni "Zo Em
pertashayit, r t 98 a"

21 eva Ooneloi mevtioko t EN >
epic undebyed u&trovn meeting Yaon-
"chert ‘©’ ‘dokyaadami’ on’ what “tasks” arolet-
tsaulvta" and "o. "working club" o" summer
First evening at work. 18 and
Seneschen?in memory of the recently deceased ‘ro-
zvoeakovo Yair bazhzhinYyaA, 1. TAKE.

pharynx. Hay? 8 hair dryers oz6t-
EN EENY Vva“, Andreeva,
TM 3 Torvkogo; On? Dne®, Gorkvvo 1 E
ii Vanyuznany" and Inya nantey "low"; crb-
ime toto` b:r carried out one knowledgeable va b6he

=0. proletarian. culture" (IVO 2000.
Tula. At 3% plant earlier su-
there was a cultural and `Enlightenment co-
-zveobia;
eChulaovy ‘district nroletkult’:Not-
sakoNYno ‘Chozie “the latter included
`zulturnoserovetitenic ‘commission of the district-
ma ‘inebus’ youth.” About uniting into one whole
low cultural work in the Natron-
then the plant, the Chulkovsky Proletkult is
gubiroceta department
Currently. and Dkovsky, prolet-
cult’ has its own theater and is visited by
bridge, approx. $ cinematograph,
string led with ` orchestra (A
`vev)’etudiu!’ of down instruments! (20`che-
-aovek)bibdiotekucitannyu`(5000’yaoms; but-
-capacity 2-80 people), 7 m troA ma-
Obterskaya, 37 children’s Fada’ (200 people” no-
-attendance! db'150 "aelovek); dbtekuyu 'etono-
'I feel} 8 notbroy' half enjoying lunch 'until' 1200
person; ‘sports club; disinfectant pro-
`detnult diya' association of children and' le-
‘knowledge’ of their activities on a ‘labour’ basis
- (up to 150 people), `craft' school and
Sunday courses for’adults@’prenoda-
title of lathe; metalworking, blacksmithing and
carpentry and model repair: LLC
Cloud. Tuleviy district railway station
orphanedvult Elena next’ out-
detailed (digital) report for the winter of 1920.
``There were a lot of Taven performances: 60,
from nikna” otavntsiyah ieneznoyabrozhnaya ‘in-
nii-210}obebnyatnie 19; of which 0° blanc-
tsim--10, ‘concerts 8; ‘mitintov--5, ‘pek-
tions—16 children’s performances 4; oh
`ballets—6, and ‘inematogrifichesna\“b-
Fo Vo, ov KoravANaATO. AZADUDRIO CH
-Yaroletarian universities and: courses.
and "Mookvat1t January: vluianeni worker
Faculty of T Moscow State University
‘the university celebrated its’ nerves’15-
anniversary of the existence of the named faculty
yellow and ion BU. VMAYA NMA, oo \
tbluivteli evichasya in the same way, working
ie, up to 1000 people: From 5' to 10' pm
life ‘at’ the faculty is in full swing
thromadnoya uninerentetv (new and old buildings)
nia). Work is in full swing everywhere: Reception1 listen&-
lei increases in all governing bodies
faculty, room 66’ ”Irezi-

wow

seyyh, ‘right up. dor

Jo ‘there are’ pretavyali ol’epushala-
lei. GPromadnayaichek / around 2007,
ziitsa‘‹vovgo burb‘fractions’ works inI'm numb.
No. 1516). PROSETARIAN CULTURE a

Created for: study, social-! Dimogo, for: education in. Zivole nerve.
these thoughts of Russia. with "participation, PZ level. This includes natural science, mathematics
their teachers, And 'resurrected - › Marina, Russian, language, Soviet builder"

nyaky $ her ‘bespart I udk INROPVA ©1789 and the constitution of the Soviet: Republic,,
„Moscow.. „Adj local o u nnOOkh history: ‘socialism, and, communism, history,
The institute has opened a working faculty, a cultural center: Rofir ON, Zabozteiuirti
Abochyan, ‘the faculty has. WE ©0905; communicate. good ones! processes. >hinov nightsAnlon

to the broad masses of workers. tse y, Tsiya. Zn8=! > Studies, courses, pre-planning. lead
that illuminate what is being done, by them always through active participation in: their own service
day job. technically and socially, ‚ chaleleyz therefore. ri. agrenodaniye, humal
economic points of view on the general educational sciences, a large ‚place ‚will be needed 1
Be. ‚Basically. ; hell 94.‚ five ‹conversations. and ‘referrals,. , entering zaka
do s. substantive Purpose.. ‚study of this or that subject; at, hall
the faculty is in that me. ‚time. preparations, .. tions, but about., natural-historical
It is important to apply to academic disciplines. ‚apply, chief-.
p, and “others, about and in other ways, laboratory method, INSTRUMENTS
oli universities. vl znihot. ›en nuyu: work, ekevuresi m prizi eminoyech
and 'Priority inehiout of investors; Second: part. programs: < hugs one t
ways. messages, has: I, worker p „in tsizlno, pedagogical subjects.
tet. 'The listeners of this. Urteca Avayazoya. ‚„ pelvis, era, 400 lying. ‚hours. Here’ INCLUDES. p
IO, workers and peasants, I thirst for experimental psychology and a medaholic, oh!
c. ‘knowledge and burning. by desire. help | history of pedagogy ‘and.trudovolikoyinv |
tskoy "Republic in, business, KEYANANANAYA ‚ connection. with: social education, dressing
ke life. soloNoerVnkh ato ‚ literature: and, organization. children's library-..
Despite the fact that labor is hardditch, Z-hour, &c0;  current stories and dramatization, movement,
howl, ra0o ie Chen, carefully. visit. new games and physical education. ‘development, organization
lectures. easdez gal lono TsIYA labor sikol „agricultural. ‚household, |
Lebedishch, Tambov province. In the city there is already a bad museum and an alcoholic enocureia"
and 'Elet there is a folk university:, ‚mechanics of familiarizing a child" © with nature. g
tet. After the rock of pushers, there are people, the method of native replacement is 5
OK, no business. (and they have members.’ g tikvmemoroveden:, pchizovov 8 other
and rofeoyuaov, employees. Ze institution, Ivanovo-Voznesensk. With ‘local ‘polylek-’
niy, tenish workers and peasants; worthless. institute for workers. and; in amanidi
o equaled by local NONO to OTira. working faculty opooleveya aaa
educational organizations, „‘.ozs spo Possessing all the rights of fatsuzteta, work-
mobrazov tel. “before o. in ‚chiyfazhultet uses all physical

|:

prog version includes, etc. chemical laboratories..and military.. |,
sociology | olitic. economy, historical other auxiliary aids. Call
p cult % a 2 kovstat. materials from the Institute of G Zone nolooo koma
0. F. 0. g Nozaaonoy 2 od Gyavvnym. subjects “are, mathematics-
bro" I lecture Hours =, tika" fiaina, irometogoh is given. yaachi-
Tia. VU EN I about RUZEOVY ",telny, place. political economy" bio-
And } Isunilor m is available, non-,.logy, drawing. and.foreign languages.
sko BOV, Na] ‚‹ At the faculty. scientific

I tm r I
Izu“ 1 ro) go. edge, from the studio, giving those comrades who: after spending the night:
etc. And that, at. ‚uni o yy ‚funk, aostvuyti E boe 5) OV
tions accounting. department; I have - workheodaganl van
The main goal is to train experienced accountants” and Depending. then stock. information - general, vi
accountants. editable. s' 'organized ".." development of all those admitted to the working faculty.
courses on radio-telegraphy for, dtokhovEi, tet are divided into five: basic. semesters, 5
tag known. esl hachei"; ; me 'U9l0hi. Of these, the first two constitute the first:
This is quite clear from the recipients of her AB ol ‚step, and the last three - the second: 0.0
radio station). y motevo aaeih `In addition to the indicated five semesters at the Faculty:
Recently there was a, HOW MUCH. inView. stethe, are organized. preparatory"
change, U. E and “essence, people’s group” Passage: total. kurea on five
university, turning him. c. E "n-semester. calculated: for 'o 20. months" For p
› enlightenment of the masses, and oo admission. ‚for the first semester, the following is required: › o
giving character. ov in Zi and eternally “firm knowledge of four actions on wholes for
with i. work with 0 numbers of any size, be good
cha 5o-vi "Pri. 'sodeyez" viya "fur onmotnym acquaintance. with‹dementamilrammazihi.
of the Nogo Pedagogical Institute "In April with Methodological works, it is not her who sings Fo
month about they break in. teachers, workers. |& involvement en pp m e dis H
whores Courses. these have. my own. the goal, worker, is it:
preparation of a frame of persons from the workers and peasants | Petrograd, Department of External Affairs: “Return.”
from education to teaching, in our united work. development: opening project: “On-ii

Give the first stage pizole. GO zeamnio Rodnykh Universitetovtovo sveekh" areas.
I program calculated. on, Rograda. In many areas’ oriel nights
6-7 months, subject to dutonenni (6- “thetas. otErytynoevnkonodyav 5 zany

Tyvon U Petrograd. “The project was approved.”
The whole 'program' of the courses was broken up at the workers' polytechnic institution in Petrograd
first hour. 4-5 months, (800 hours) bunicum. Project. This is the beginning"
Duty is devoted to the elaboration of material, requirements; new program" in the field of nachioya

concepts 60 ‘side of the listeners,

7x PROLETARIAN CULTURE No. 1515

plantings of ebyabcizl ‘education “radishes that 616” February will be | Uninonify
ptirozhiz workers zeaov. "oto ha ao) wto then the following, NY water vonomi->
1187202000: ET t, "working" posizhekhnikumeme'° cheskoe, musical ola. and © 19 Feb-—

otiryz tsey: d vureoin, nobtavivih `6ebe' `” working techn
I appreciate nodebtovit rnd vyvoko-nvyyaifitsiyaroni; Saratov province. B" regarding -.
valinikh workers and ikomanyairs" VH. ta Ya bochem NV site"© approx. E s
developments in production whitefish R century. baichi; d WHOSE bot. y open ‘rural
1 Totrograd2 Club" obkiia ‘otitis PIG foam +
enlightenment, the declared “e’ club ‘eence ri Courses were captured” and the day
prodetkulzha; will the kurey'diyavod be rewarded?  poyaevodetvu, relatives, ‚Zkokhbnod
cooking 'cadres of experienced' vetruktbrov; ‘koto: “and bvdovode wu.
rym could be’ zorumen A aya robot Atkarsk; about tub. Az zerviy a
nabmediakivtoktoChi Otonn that ENEACHN years you and OV updated yours, 9

E: a

and
Those:

t

Netrograd.” Pezrovreneniy komite pbeta-"nyatin"© 6 o E
noviya orgeizovalt porayonaya o nenichevyne tr ry iva ‘is gone. 2 bi
seams. Year before" snfoteChosve 0058400 myn from the ''day'' of the 'first

District shikom raebchizhyans! ‘on, 100`46l0-" evening technical courses di
century’ and’ will ‘exist G as t This d RN a G
organization; ` with’ ‘what’ ‘composition of telecommunications’” “automatic” I? I listen to you.
prednoyvgaetsya ‘postoyannym: vandy vyde: he is an owl! her.
donavyu 'zovarin 'obliged O Pa eo pa
4 dinla ‚lectures schools. ( pyapostekhon C o A chenikov ‘fab you skykh’

Chinola listeners: Zizlbiovvalnya cha NN E NY,
telnokolyaekenvom: District poyaieichenaya“ `Tara-technical personnel.
shkoyaa’› staviya ©vo6y vadachey develop iv °t Tolykent. February 12. On
listeners in full ‘excellent communi- ties 6 open Yabbchetgo: faculty.

etov} © inerdoy) sustained ‘principal = Omsk. Aron University was opened. .

noy tova ok, yy. horn: Nizhny’ inovo 0. Sobtbinov rn.

gramiu party” and “ve obnovnui” IIVYAT ur a unita.

voprovavei otondots #? go” Nazhny: Novgorod. “One in four” Not: rya “iv”
Kazan. On December 18, at the “Raveronnov RT Tashninsky Plant” you are holy

for proeztrevaya' COMA 5355 A ‚NaseO technical
Kazan; Edited by taking into account emotions “"“ Work on courses, 61 about soybeans
short-term nureys murvvyais are openeini` bi ry" and 'technich
(newspaper ‘rabovyulf pis’ ch ii05ya pa TOO seed plant’ i, t, etc.
Kovtromakh Viyazn chi: ozanyazii ‚vat ‘worker’ vine fight E a usi
TEA NOY, ZonshaAA Aries ‚nalazni- * Great help p ZioEas from
And" 6Вь and clothing,

wafsyainioo5: nadotelomotsoa ine: yes ‘komm unistiches p

To.mec. ON elk ov VN ‘otnryzny Biennials: (and I
tie'working"inetitut"medical services: Orzhevek, Pskov. lips `Q: yy:
tiy! Classes “began” at obelven-kovyaiz it again TEskozekoy” and about “higher,

private division of the village of ‘otdeneviig jommeut 7 agricul- tural-farming menia

‘new economy and that Che i v. ho anizovana ku And iparovan-‘”
Przateku Smolenvny cube. And ‘universal chi "and mauters. From February to

Sitbt named after "Gogra Alenseeva 6°4 faculty-"Ev t 'bencia a a YIN, f

thetas: Tu general education; 2)‘ admin

U

cultural and economic, 3) ai m. t Em and a" tu 665-"
gokic i‘ 4) ootsieko-hozyotvenny: ^^ I SHE neno k orranizat p E.
Nekov, Program mesenogogyroletvreno about ‘by’ node a workerE t and
socialistic University and ‘churns:
rivae # two kuroy71) main and ‘ 2) special- ‘sah bu yen ZyStavki, research institutes’

ny. Main course - general education course | About the Olympic Games
educational captivity ‘him’ is embraced by the icy Tver. Textile Council" you and" Ch
uchvye 'hisciplans: mathematics zablevyoe from March 'byny otyry. int |
knowledge; ‘sociology; vluziazhenimo 8! Nurev / “I spin, according to the quality” of spinning. Oh
presents itself!^ free ‘choice! study" eotselv kursbv - 'create' from! E Ni. ь
one of the ‘next cycles’ of knowledge! in-Ner>° of both “sexes” and ficir she r S gi- u
out" 'administrative. economic thiefs, NT
second; religious and third! otichebky: 1 Tver. Increasing O s

and

Oaratov. It was solemn: from ry m yy nobuzhiya kudv bt i
ie’ worker: Akunin Obudarovya is not a department of foreign languages. abrierskaya and.
nom” university. 1075 VI ›ch IRozhdvetvenskoy” tr, V. dya’

Saratov. At the Polytechnic Institute there are members of both sexesnographies. "7"

open up as a fanult worker who has a tseshya` Kurovenlatnye 6 three months; #8 Zanityn

datv! Zhadrsaetsialiotov! organiovaii: nar" ‘comes in three times a week:

dear! farms of the Republic of Simbirsk. S 1 EN ‘Otkreshchyns VU
Kamyliin, Saratov province. Obr about Vabbt1 `tet'bbscheetvennih izuk |

Whose university with vgronomics! ‘desonite’ t Official office: Trade unionized workers: 5

logical ‘and general educational’ fairies chikh poditrofichenkuku VOO ‘from the mouth’

tetadajl koi oteRodats advatottay 4 kanali 5CH ikoyaa. #800] t pa. not: yy
1 roveya; Saratov province Workers' Union” Kharkov. and otirachy courses ‘o’pokh

versity ‘brings to’ ‘knowledge of ztushazhels; “With totovke” about the three Teachers_
representatives of the professor, local, Chwonoh I
of which Institute,” 38 18 o

PROLETARIAN CULTURE)

79)

Pri. studio there is a cultural-pro-
lighting commission, ‘opens Chi-.

Vitebsk. On the 18th of the forala the Bomm m “challya” opened and the opening is planned; Keloka, ie.”
chesky university nor EE diya. preparation about ., laces,
merged gnikov from the river environment. __ Onetsk Sailors of the Onezheka flotilla, on.

Uralvek. . ri workers' club, ii. re m tevral |
Kurvya E RA m Sadovo, d: “named after L. “Tunacharokogo”:
no more: ‘before the present © C, the mission of this oh.studio, ‘the sailors organized. -.
top of it, "music classes, created! literary" =
All yards 4 t. t their will be pre., circle, circles. physical. nullurs.
turned ‘to’ the cities. Sh to school, .  painting and sculpting were introduced. in the clubs about:
VK ‘take’ the wads that I will: y – arrange . ofofiaoschiya

vat. ‘own. strength
Samara. “Syzran is open”
horny vurvy s. Ford research institute
vative and special [m:
Diya. n vlush: > -
weekday s&p
b Penza. I have earth
lowered three-month, Bielsko-sho
new courses. the clear purpose of this
appears to be the mind of the mind and, `vultur:
convened
sneeze, give them a common and. specially
technical information
sy are organized in 3 ubzds ogd eet i.
more than 10' izh ni and sy

-8:

With the 'curves' 'organivs: we are 'exemplary.'
poultry farmer- | |

zone 6" livestock breeding,
stvom and Iyalovechild. ‹ ;
Orsha, Smolensk tub. `Orshynekim pro-.
Tor University opened on March 8
3 week courses. equals. ‘sisters ZNA
mercy. : W I
Orsha: I have to leave,

earthiness on humanitarian\ and Nrele- ›

pesnodo-

agricultural `farm. р800-р

<: 600
a In dramatic

,. pr it

Tarsky University begins to decline. ,

A collection of books is being published. her-
of `0] andish' 'proletarian' cabbage soup
university U”?

Orsha. Resumed. classes in tsroletart.

skom ‘unive eee 1 t, 8 Re

Great 'Luki, YOU 'from
vye: yy a,
personal - and.

byatarek itet ©

E an iya

cultural-p Nan yy k
Voronezh."

site named after Ya. M. Sverdyaov. ^^

uh

Anh 2:
' Proletarian. studios, E t

Mogilev. In Pvovezhekom "abair" sobtoyalov
triumphant celebration
and a working music studio.

That one was not only a holiday.
participants of this cultural-] illuminator
no ‘organization, But ‘and celebrate: com’ everyone.
workers; Mogilev.” ^

workers and working youth, ‘developed
in particularly unfavorable conditions
evacuation, foreign relocations and
yet he lived to see his anniversary.

other leaders ‘t ideolo-.
gii ‘v! fields of ‘music:’

And music studio 6: tsebtvuet
& Youth Union! In the cell'

the rest of my comrades.

‘anniversary

90` person-
ry all ‘they are ‘conducting’ active’ ‘work among’

r". ‚st

city S, studios,

I'm public
Worm' 'working music' studio, in

erts and musical venus. ituin:
Petrograd. `Vesno Teatralnaya 1, arena.
St. Petersburg proletkult: prediodaech
touring, trip, c) Moevva. 1
studios. and onviews
intensive work is underway to prepare the pain--:

A script for the anniversary of the Red Army.

Petfrograv, 18th r.

ь DorVITA is being carried out in a hurry, in order: ra:
bots on the creation of the cycle “Folk with Rezo-.
lucid, vision. in Russia." them
Voronezh. At the club we drahel
cheskaya, studio.

cheer... 20th. ‚devab‚opened ‘pris I
trawl „: studio, prize:

m exclusively. ‘workers and their children,

Assigned to the organization. provisions. o.
Thoseatrash | section., To work together
I'm attracted. 1 Zeno en her
tions, - Be

„ Yae ti rivers [turn |
she puts on a drama, E... Varpova: “Glow.”
Teitr department for the day. th May: ready->
heading towards the production. „„Legend of Kommunare*.
Irzhevek, Vyatka province.. "In the local. flight"
< vultovekoy t me oh". ly zvrehi-
ovano, up to 100 people. . xy
Ga. we're meeting members ay
` studio held. 1. trill, lhostan-
g leno lead, "theoretical." classes; deserved!
` give two or three lectures, by... history of the zone
and _commit to practical exercises, to
‚ condemnation of plays, production of 2000 and rob

d rehearsals.
updated classes in Niva A

Tver. 15th. January, opened: li. at.  About=

1: letculte. live-action and modeling classes. Owl
Ekaterinburg. ‚Opened, on’ U Vea

Volume of the Tver Proletvult ‚entrusted with:
Elengorn organize and open a studio.
photographs ‘at the Tver proletkultegosl
Razhev. Deemed necessary! organiao-`
interview V, ChudiNH. ri
g proletarians of culture, you 29.8)
Smolenek, January 27, “the opening will take place. g
ii, proletkult. ...
amatic studio span
t ‚second ‚times. performed before
with improvisations, in goozdarmineh I

‘Molensk. dr
cult

Gnome. theater e and vo. palace labor. 0!
overwhelmingly ``most of' 'consisting of' p

When improvising, the theme is for the artists. given,

German “From the pub.. Having received it, eating”:

KE: Kozhevnikov, local

studio people. are deleted for. backstage." thoughts-

they are celebrating it, its execution, even now. same before
The spectators begin to act out scenes on)
Zvdacha. studios - identifying ‘from the environment of ra’

given .topic.. V. last time, past

very. “Successfully, the “Requisition” was carried out
"Apartments". ,And. "Why. I answer umbrella 6
stoma“, —-.

Ostaikov, moat lips. In fact. ao:
April, in the professional premises
flyby
80:7

byay ‘otiriiyg svudyi zorovoy’ E blah

singing izivoravitelnye ‘Nekusvt v: announcement.

Syzran" ‘Siibirena lips? "By etching"

It was decided to begin oletcult. to them
ate pyleraluric evudi EBC, .y mA o
Too bad I'm in oh
princesses? plate rau ka ro
p exchangente paradise
weight: slupivtbney “through: y = t o
navyiov ato would cheodrotovit 8 ‘Nykh 1 86-7 5
nikov) zpadeyunenkh idvyinn 60; ani e5E.” osh
Vgrabochemvnube ta’ ‘first m96v0 su
lectures put forward; 6666d KU y Idvnnao“
male) 9muyoveka/itiroch. bov 991: (In oo.

not
ig

Gomel. Imaginative Section
Gubovnabrabra” opens $ CHROZLE

PROLETAV CULTURE

No. 1556
r you 2398 ra ov 8 lu,

Itsami in <
Izanovo VoeaNZ › vi crab “mark: ,
paev M - V o vo
o o #9 a ud e-
NF m E go t. t
acta” 6” and y o k. m S
a. ‚ the rest of
t her m t g se
o tse ga ooraz 0
ibzshooya/ You o. t
exactly what, 10-

and

FO o. yy

zhuotvevnuyu o chot udin t binye. z i
pleniyud ‘vnoto’ 0 XO 98 nneimoch sedn Veyu eh; oh 2 then
Nitsche Nonozch evyrvodotya vafanoy: t ne a neg g i. a pa
-Theatres. Proletarian and People's. > \ _ me and ode, February 1st.
Netrograd “In the first and aabvom working”: and folk. E t E takle
teztra "byta lrostavla" ka a” tsy 9 vi:°° y >. ry U O IRA, = Ron
nogo pre Van od m 8636: NIE E 1:
ya atmanto vo k ry I AVA g. o otdetam; ro o
ns, Novgorodekoy village. 9li "42 ` - letkult supplied paid, spen-
liar corpse of hellish ‘artioto® taipei, 10’ zhy’s plans.
la staged ChNoesv”, Katvstrofa“. ^^ torus, 200 exhibits. 11
Roma "VAM de" and Cha {not} from Erboy NM ara E tube. March 18. day."
front “nbenonko” ra ‚v |. 68? kg ta ‚Paris commune, local. tsnom.
hin Through? goiter? o yu ny he o o "a NYA CH ZuVVO OR Bi dVN. a
putavt iv! bvevoin 8 S aaaaa 8 mototnraeanih ini
skoy' ony: se om her E. e I ‘AV a, dr zy a eista
Cossack ‘iater: = evezhina that is’.
somov i teo oe Entire collection. aaa"
not safe about that _ about, 10, WHAT FOR “children` E nykh st. Olin. vaztanam99 centuries ateoi 98
Ivovaet methnya 5648, 23. det
Netfrovec? "Ovrnna same oe: and fe. us aivAe "evening, in AE r ZY
vranyazbbetoyayev”khudb enn o vy) |0 And
Chwalynek, Sa; And

m -. no
ahh and -. spruce

ev

school“, ai

dream of Khvblynsyoto ‘Iroy At; children, _ 7 EovoYa cho
came true! Töne and S ver ro. a: January organized by Anizova No
Bir" its Ni so and in se a and OH eo
blade; ‘wow you sighed andan x’ BB ko I ‚ work m AN at uh
$2 0
And oh oh
© x\Z
Example [example Azh o „kra E sko: tsoi was put about
molenoy.`ERdek in t dr E (ay 7) my chomokh
ptoyoRovudaretvenin strict, club’ ‘team. evsyogo. op

twa
Syonemne chtezchbyeto va Za

shipyard "Knowledge and Power"

„Narodibto “At Home O ny those” was nyama:

Resinced beveiania cheeva ‚Petora reek r rae -
go ren ear' vobinoho" t Ying ‚play ‚King: from
became the center of her And this theater, the head: And
among the ‘meetnogot Ni’o in he es. Vessatno: “Nameviiivi” o
indicative t m method of y ‚=. t V ; a di Zote ZoyanNtoa
okruzaoai res in dneyyany, . &z and V me“, va

From 169 October. zn vito" water % a (e NN -2 i. BUT Vi, ly
the light was “set” 52“ --- Vitazhyaya’, d and capital“, Narisana ov. workers!
19 concerts-evenings were organized, 28 °leki "Alek O VYA wagon-building salon
and mitiyata 18 ee govenvov Ne“ EchiNAYA y i k. and VVAYYAa 9 yla played by the rats themselves

which "quantity | St. Petersburg summer. a
Comrade; ‘set by Yar viy 6]
and Institutions and accommodations,

light?) Aug 88 comrade ZEREN M pr Z ‘fa
Besides this, the house "in! will offend lunch
in itself “to courses” but #6 and iroevet- =

6.
Rabotniibv "s 42tkur MN TE
vocational school
shshimiyey; ‘dramatic
whining "preistantly"

teztratini i" ‘kruzhnov” 6580 ‘studio “i”

sweat" 3
and P steps you from 35 I

new foreignness, p and m

beach E asnobryenevnya Cho, | what

tsochvkoen onn50oe5o mash

UN

oo

It's very thin.

> and new Threats, starting, oz; katsitalieta-oo

brihanta, housekeeper, goldsmith`
Vogo, “Vaehoni viewtrab9-oo”
syavov faq proroln rr" .
loan
foam about ‘seal, on.
ly in every possible way:
plvBazi, v.v pood

‘i. end, mountain
I feel’ and and for

‘They cried silently.
No. 15-16

Ietrograd. March 18 in the Mozkovsky district
was arranged. performance-concert dedicated to"
nal to the Paris Commune.

The large hall of the theater was crowded
chami, workers and school children
Before the performance, a lecture was given
0 "Tarizh commune. After, dramatic
circle and devalue individual events
from the days of Pariscommunes. (In circles: co-
revolutionary songs were sung
hymns. and. songs. After recitations, after eating"

of the Paris Commune, solemnly
was performed, "Internationale". }

The spectators were very pleased with the celebration
Vicom. . |

Petrograd. The workers accept the most.

active participation in all circles. & between-
on the national day of working women, “create
its proletarian devaluation from Russian-
oh life..

‚Petrograd, V.teztra of the Palace of Labor
there are special concerts; worker's diya,

- Ietrograd. In the second half of April
in the period revolutionary heroic. club
There was a three-act play: “Eraed and White!”:
Author. this wonderful tsiesa comrade. Ver-
Mishchev, recently killed, on. wave: petro-
ancestor of the frontiers of the White Guards.

In tsies. “Red and White” is drawn de-
they call her kulaks; wav
a new life is breaking through. everyone licked her
mic manifestations leading to light
because of the future. Images of heroic mosho-.
long, generations imbued with the ideas of com-
munism. and ‘brotherhood, so convincing
telny and. beautiful, that drive. look-
she is in ecstasy. at

“There is no doubt that even if the most
a conscientious and bright White Guard, got

for this play, then he. I involuntarily understood. I wish I could
abomination. b. and insolvent boru ieneo

building.

ry faces, as they say, grab
chens. straight. from nature. There's no cartoon here
no condensed colors, but only one res
truth, one thing,

About the workers' heroic theater we can say:
know that he knows how to select plays and knows how
them, put them. Artistic production
This play leaves nothing to be desired. ray-
her. The director managed to bring to life
more thoughts. author of the play. The Great Anz
ensemble, teamwork, costumes, makeup. and! in-
animated play of performers—that’s what
gives bright. picture. real jingle and
causes true delight

Eagle.  Despite many obstacles,
cultural and educational department. lip-
Irofeoyuz still managed to achieve. know
° significant positive results. Yes,
contingent of listeners at the lectures, visuallythose-
her performances increased significantly. Bi-
their years diverge from their amazing
Odessa: Club work. in the stage of development
Zia. The library opens. Childhood: morning
pass with interest and deliver to young
great pleasure for the audience,

Tver. Maly Proletarsky Theater. (6: Ber-
govekaya {ab mi put: . "Boris Godunov"

Pushkin. Someone's performance, even labor,
but to highlight, only through collective work,
`general. friendly comradely joy,

Proletarian culture. No. 15 = 16,

PROLETARIAN CULTURE: 81

You can finish off such rezrlitat {but sorry..
newspapers for you).

On January 9, Kormuva’s play was staged:

“Renaissance*”, written in 1913, under the introduction
chatting, revived after Lensky
execution, labor movement. 4

Tver, (V. club, Sho I internationalaaa went
play. Andreeva: “Days of our lives.” th

Tver. Studios are starting to try their
forces speaking with public spectacles,
On February 5th at the Sh International club there was
the play was staged. Chekhov: “Ovadba”. It was
many incorrect methods of the "game" that are
until: hopefully further. productions
will disappear: gift" A U

Tacher. April 4 cold - enlighten the heat
commission at: 902 hospital was given,
tal) for: tin., goonital etc. fight
Red Army soldiers: |

It was said: “On the zonstirative
apartment’, comedy’ in two acts.” it
‚The inhabitants of the drama circle played
Kumuerrnno-provoliyartny commission of the state ci-
hoist: CX

The production and acting were quite successful
and caused unanimous applause from the audience:

Oyzran. r in view of training vdaz
military department, the work of Mrodet-
cult ‚renewed, staging. stek-
takla for members: Trade union.; sound

‘Syzran. In Narodny. house, Syzrano-Vyazem-
skaya railway. Red Army corpse-
pa cultural clearance of the reserve combat regiment
with: participation. Meegny Anna's post-
vila. iesu "The Dispossessed". ›, -

The play" is about: water and quantity. see-
lol

Syzran. In the local proletarian. theater
was staged: “Educator Flaxman”,

Contents of this. plays—people's struggle
teachers, aboutriddled with new trends;
new ideas ‘in’ the field of education with children
rum of “people in cases”, who have become
zeners, The contents are full of dimemini, And vnu"
morning action; Oezanen:

In the play, the mud of the German teacher is depicted
government 12)!

-Sitbirek. January 26 was the evening. pro-
letkult; shaaiesa Bedotserirnsnogo yaVif-
shigeko, with irovyu“, niya

Simbirsk: Local cultural department - folk
communications in the building of the former diocesan school
searching in honor of the anniversary of the revolution (over-
life of autocracy): everyday life performance:
“Fighters ‘for freedom’ and vodeviya: zad.v. heaven":

S. Dlitrievskoe, Shuisky district, Vladi.
worldly lip Tsyitrievekim: cultural-pro-
luminous. circle. youth was Sho-
children's theater staged: Pa play; Sherlock
Hoime"; in 8 acts. mov proshia Udo"
satisfactory.

It would be advisable to put ties on
themes from modern.

S. Trevkino, Vpreanovy district "Tambov-
sing your lips Local peasant argi-
hundred. recently! was; lined up. one day
tatsley. They put: . Don't live the way you want®
Ostrovsky and other things;

Young peasant forces: showed their
way to eat. played; over. expectations; than
more; What. ‘most of the existing searches
were the first time. na`etsem; {

ka: >

82—

-Shubaika! was very’satisfied’ and’iro-
the power to stage things like this more often.
‹Izhevey, Vyatka tub. In the People's House
postavien pvesa’ Ostroveky: “Educated”
Nitsa “o. And . $4; r. ‘

Izhevsk Vyatekoy lips. In' communitarian
club, with a large crowd of people,
the performance was given. She was walking. play: "Vernaya"
dawn" (on the day of the revolution), "dramatic
scenes in 4 acts, ‘op. Borovsky:

Based on its plot, the play “Vrasnaya Zarya”
purely revolutionary content, obrieo-
recalls ‘the last days of tsarism with its
yellow. oppression; when the howl is moonlit and bright
suppressed by the zealous servants of the royal
throne—gendarmes, provocateurs, and ‘per-
weekend of the February revolution; when& rus-
Sky people, throwing off the chains of slavery,
seeing the dawn of the long-awaited freedom ‘and in these
days, ironized miracles. heroism, in struggle. ‘for
your happiness: E. rerey:

Alexandrov. Drama Troupe Wat-
National Education staged Gauntman's drama: “Mi-
Hael Kramer." } -

Borovichi. In the 'Gorodekom' theater 'troupe
Naroobraz staged a drama: “By the Sea”, Georgiy
Aeneas: “other oolvya in the ass! to 8.

Voronezh. January 14 at the Free Theater
there was another ‘non-performance of the play “Chiri-
kova: “The Legend of the Red Castle”.

S. Nityak. ` Cuisine-educational
circle. plays were staged: “Our Days” and
Erotonico9 6 8 Aa

Alexin! Tula lips. Group “Watnar-
the image is set in a meaningful, beautiful way
Bulatzel’s piece: “Life ‘in a moment’.” .

Aleksin. A comedy was staged at Kommersant Club
XNUMXth century “Girl Trouble”.

"Vetluga. 14 livarians 'in a circle' at Vetluga
skoy potelkontore` ‘delivered; Confession
prisoner." Thing’ played by zhino’ ‘and ostavia
deep impression" on the public:

Nizhny-Novgorod. `In the “club” of workers of the Waters-

Nopo Transport on January 23 was delivered:

“Sale of Life”, Op. 'Surekogog
by. Ouryyeno, `Syvran' district? © `pain-
Migint-epektazhl went through our sleep, ra =
Zygracha Ivesa; .‚Crow’nvlinnyieryakh“.
„Gryazovets.’” culturally - Encouragemental
kozhnom officials and workers of the Soviet
The farm organized two’concerts, gathering
© which! entered 'to help the front.'
(. Nikologory, Vyaznikovsky district. Func-
zibnizes workers' cinema; which
irvaleks. a lot of ‘Visitors’.

Meetings. and. conferences.

TIoskel. ‘May 10°’‘was all-Russian
b’ezd” of proletarian writers; › renamed
vavshiy: sebi iz'ez'ezda" in `;ebroadcasting. ›

Mogkwa. April 12-14 was scheduled
army conference. On the agenda of the day
conference and was staged. question ‘about cul:
tour-educational’ ‘work’ in the new
army. and . VA

Eagle; A trip of club workers took place
Oryol military district:

Poetanovieno: 1) start immediately
in place of ‘to’ the organization of cultural milin-
gov and glad’ interviews: 2) establish’ sa-
my close organizational connection’ between
all existing “clubs; 3)’ immediate

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

\

No. 15- 16It’s time to start opening a whole series of
vorsov, 4) install the tightest
communication with the department of public education
nia through. interdepartmental. commission,
e)to use everything extensively. local culture
tourneys including the strength of the team
composition, 6) ‘proceed immediately’ to the organization:
installation of tubes in hospitals and 7) pro-
GAME on the ground the idea of a single general role-
club by attracting" to the "krai-
army ‘ilub of the broadest layers of workers
what's wrong? you

In addition, reports were made on
library and theater work.

Tula. The first provincial con-

‚ference shows the cultural’-prove-

tive organizations.

At the conference a “full” card was ‘given’
the essence of the local proletkult.

The Tula Proletkult began its activities

on September 22, 1918, but its term
normal operation lasted only until
fimyya. th m } ,
'Before' starting 'cultural' work,
the proletariat revealed new forms of culture,
taking the path of self-mastery
values of the ‘past’ and at the same time gave
possible widespread manifestation of ©н0е0б-
news, ‘creating studios; as conditions, when
which all the power of creativity could. evo-
Poorly prove yourself: The first taste of work
turned out to be already completed ‘and the task’
Letkulta is the development of those elements;
which are characteristic of pro-
Tara culture, and in its essence
differ from the bourgeois culture:

Drama studio in February 1919
had 285 participants, but in January 1920
the number of studio members was reduced to 85.

The music studio employed 850 people
century; This studio created new musical
new compositions, onera experiments were written;
created ‘euphonic’ nonzeri: I

In the counties it was’organised’
puztov. units

Petrograd. In mid-May I became pregnant
convening a citywide club conference;
at this conference they will take into account
sotavieeli central institutions, factories
and factories, RYa. O. 5n language:

' Murom, Vladimirskaya (tub. Held
NT workers' conferencezteketilnoy ‘about
industry of the Murom-Melenkovsky district,

The conference drew attention
to the low attendance of the created work-
with the hands of the workers’ club to provide
for factories and factories, an appeal was made
nie; so that ‘they provide local support’ to Mansi-
small ‘attention to! strengthening cultural
and illuminating activities. ^^

Ietrograd. At a meeting of the proletarians. ii-
satel! it was decided to convene a congress of proletarian
writers in Ukraine.

Ietrograd. On January 12, the congress of works opened
niks’ enlightenment in the Red Army and
navy. at

Petrograd. `February 20th the ‘pubern-
own conference of the union of construction workers
sneeze; More than 150 delegates were present;

`The Conference' recognized the necessary
give all your strength ‘to the development of cultural-.
educational activities as a base. for

Ying grumble
3 05

“strengthening” the conquered proletarian re:

revolutions:

1 Tetrograd. At the organizational meeting
proletarian writers on February 15’ were
reports were heard on the need for the most
close proximity among themselves "proletarians"
Chinese writers and! 0 more serious liquor-
tour work; r

'That's it. it was decided to organize the meeting,

weekly meetings for familiarization ©,
proletarian. literature and reading
exit works.

Tur me it was. ivbrano piformational
bureau. out! two. comrades to give
baking. information 0. activities
proletarian writers.

Tver. January 25th and 26th. First. Tverskaya

Citywide conference on. extrapicol-^

new education. There was a ©’ride, according to.iro-
professionally, - technical education.
Assumed. Congress, but... workers-peasants-
I'll remember the theater.

Tver. In the “IT International” club there is
The second city conference took place. span-
cult.

The main question facing the con-
ference: appeared, the question of further su-
"brilliance of proletkult" |.

As a result of the debate, resolution 3 was adopted
tions. recognized as a necessity. independent-
the existence of proletkult, priat.
it was pointed out the need for the most
connection withworkers, masses what up
there has been almost no recent activity.

Ostashkov. On December 22, the
1st Ostashkovo district conference
artless. youth. 5

Novotorkok...February 1: opened ‹s’ezd.ra-
Botnites and peasant women.

Ostashkov. In the interests of the development of affairs, outside
school, education. `Extra-school sub'-
The department is convening s’evd-courses on February 29.

Ostalikov, Tverskoy ‘rub. ‹Took place
6 Ostashkoven countywide conference
trade unions. This conference is especially
special attention was paid to the issue of purchasing
tour and educational tasks. among. iro-
letariat. —

Nizhny - „Lomov, Penza, province. „On
1. district conference of trade unions. was
The following resolution was adopted: “Struggle for
proletarian culture is the third and window-
the reading stage of the worker’s struggle. for mastering
liberation of labor. Work culture.
The main task of proletarian culture is
education of the working masses: in society
chesically spirit, development ‘among the masses of class
self-awareness and brother cohabitation
‘between all the peoples of the earthly itar: Deut.
paradise zatsacha, that is no less important - this is...
fatal ZOOPING of the masses. in the professional sense
"nal anany."

Astrazhan. On January 12 the last
plenary session 1 cultural-pro-
Luminary conference of garrison units:

A relentless struggle has been announced. illiterate-
ness. The most serious thing addressed. attention
And at lectures in schools and libraries.

Serdobsk, Saratov province. At the end. March
in the local editorial office. newspapers! "Hammer Series"
“A meeting of poets and journalists took place.
That's it. meeting, by the way, usually

PROLETARIAN JUNK. 488

decided to contact ‘Serdobsky Iro-
pelcult; to publish/at the expense of the cult

` works of comrade. Oh heaven:

I was drinking. 2.

“In addition; the meeting decided: shaved
Val literary section of the Pritroletkulte
for our dearest participation in Oren A Otart
Kal evenings.

Roslavl. February 20 th `county zonfe-
rencia of the workers' and peasants' smopodeka of Russia
Lavlsky-district

‚V..Luke. 15 February fromthe youngsters skidded
at the unparalleled workers' conference
clear youth of Velikoluksky district’

Kazan On January 19, the ‘first con-
ference. ate textile workers
industrial area:

Kuznetsk. January 10: the county opened
conference of educators.

Mogilev. 216. “January. District number ©’ved
advice.

"Voronezh. On December 16, a 'conference' took place
tion: trade unions. | at

‚Proletarian. holidays and exhibitions.

Petrograd. A question has arisen! about the 'organization
in Petrograd, the manuscript museum of three tro-
letculte. Towards the creation of the Tirietu Museum
- there is a literary and publishing poll, where
many have accumulated: ‘original, mrn
knowledge of literature and art concoction of Ia

| Petrograd. ‹ March‘ is the month predominantly
-stvu, the month of the Iroletarikh ‘festival So,
`March 8th is the day. ‘women workers 42 = inferior
nie previnin ze roses rn
communes.

Meaning: this. sleep at the meeting of managers
the propaganda department decided to carry out the
factories, a whole series of rallies; remarks
eat and workers.

On March 12, it was decided to limit ourselves to tor-
feminine with sitting, gal okali no ovre =
me. to prepare for this holiday,
in view of proximity 18. ’martaz second ‘must
to be solemnly celebrated. m

Moreover; ‘naltom ke meeting: decided
do , nogatory. work on the
denial of non-party conferences. a.

Vyazma, Smolenenoy publ At the end of March
- a meeting of authorized representatives was held

glorifiers from. all: Local trade unions
from Oyurosvystavya. according to the question
having unionized! in fact. ‘created by youtavin tol,
called “Socialist Nulture”, on
In this case, it was revealed that the professional

- unions that are in this knocking. self-

activities neo gyroyavlyayut, ›will® iredeta-
Presented on the counter with a blank piece of paper
©. name of the union; In Tozka time bureau
©. feeling of satisfaction” notes that
some trade unions! created for ‘exhibition’
exhibits. indeed. worthy pro-
professional ortamization velutitvatih a
ways of creating new legions 209

Union of Communist Youth.
Letrogrod. February 28 in room ‘e010-.
'for. Tekstiltsiki ‘took place on Lena
educational conference:
We were at the conference. ‚‘Ry are invited
compilers of ‘factory “composies” and’ managers
waving in clubs.

. [s

The Gulag took place on March 20” T’troleharskaya
day = ‚conferencefrom sep.
educational organizations
° Smolenek. PE race took place on March 1
rodekaya ‘worker’s conference’ ‘study
youth; at this conference there is presence -
shaft 1400; delegates, \ en en im
1000 young proletarians. |

The mood of all the students at the conference
-accepted, revolutionary: : '

Eagle. More in everyone! or less! ‘skull
enterprises' oreanizovyny cell' commu-
-nistic youth; So isamoto!  start
of their›existence›these cells›attach
or to fabota’ingoregion, mainly - in the way
-conducting in! life and about ore
teenagers

For purposes! ` achievements, goals
the club was created. The club, in turn,
organizov-l’ section ‘circles;\ Via Con-
concerts and lectures. Early

“Ilyatteenagers have opened the Likbla!” diplomas

Tarachev, Orlovskoy 2/0. By train created
4 volost cells of the R. VK. S. M.

“Vorbnezh“ Prim“ National Science: Factory
"There is an organizational one. cell of youth
dejiu for: ‘the second opened’ Nov, `in’ it

there are more than "50! people.

Vorone `The other day, in; the village of Ierlenne; RN
- Lansky district; ‘organized communist
Youth Union: `Recorded! about
- 39 people mostly peasants. \On
at the general meeting of the union, ‘after’ hearing.’before-
treasure at the current moment would be. rendered
the following resolution: “We are members of Perlev-
its communist youth union,
received it for the first time in their lives! possible
ness' 0b'unite "screw up. ‘red’ sign
me; we swear" at this meeting
serve as an example to the unconfessed masses
-m’to be a stronghold of Islam and: (6) and one
- power and sshti. in the front ranks of the fighters
“liberation” of the world’s workers from
atators and ‘parasites’ and! >

Plin, Movkovskoy 20: At the factory and opova
no way

21 'dDecember onguetroilsubbotnik, poetog

Friendly. work for several hours ‘were
6 wagons of firewood were unloaded.”

-‚ Vologda Udo organized here
Slavic-dramatic section; home‘ wa-
Diag septiu “clarification of abstracts for
working youth to” youth members
mine! in: free ‘time to relax! igpopu-
read at least. some ‘self-education.

"Bryansk. Ending up in `Bezhitsa. Confe-
`rentia of the Working Youth' › unanimously
decided to turn away from the struggling ‘\youth

devi: with appeal; where are the youth prizes?

‹regards ‘social revolutionary work’
"bote-igvetuplenyu v. Che" Com; Union Mo-
aodezhalt from

; Menaa nae ze V.Sl Mlizdal
letter e appeal to the factory
factories enter into orrenization at
Kozmlrete “itvonu ‘working ‘teenagers? Record-
fall out: the all-mad ones can fluently ‘chatalt,
- and ztisal. By the nature of its work, the school
is transitional to’ and the second’ stage
penalties. Moreover, the Union assumes an organ-
_to lower a whole series of
reports. iVOUSi E17 g

dv

PROLETARIAN CULTURE

No. 15-16

> Ny Vuv factory; former Shalrova,
Of the workers there are about 500 ‘total
‘about 15`ibdroseks; ‘motors recently’ ‘about
dismantled; highlighting ‘six’ people, . cell ^
Youth Union; ‘They are already there
for the part program: 0
Moore. organized' dramatic
a circle of working teenagers-students and
‘pupils at the Buchikha-Torskaya factories’
and' paper and weaving factory. `TFirst spec
takl "would (placed' in! 'working' club in

Monday 19 January. or the Demons: “Two
old man' unvalued 'about' the story
L: N. Topechogo, ii) Emyakin Court." Pe-

The beginning of the spell was Kivina Rya
Speeches.

Mogilev.” 124 nyben in the workers' club
teenage ‘named after Karl Libinecht, co-
`stoyayeya: evening; dedicated to M; Gorky.

(Tver. `Non-party working youth
two, the villages of Kleshcheevo and! ra 0b'-
united in a circle called ^ ""Vru-
about united youth in villages
`Ravrilovo’ Named after Sniridon Dmitrievich
Drozhizhina*. In a circle at two months old 'him
-existence of ‘organization’ vurey dla
adults, staging ‘performances, maspara-
events, evenings, lectures, rallies and enterprises
-There are a lot of useful undertakings. '

and Vitebsk. Vulture-enlightenment 'ra-
`botaiSyuza Working Youth expressed
`in ‘arranging two interviews © workers
‘teenagers on’ themes CHICOLA ‘and ‘working

young people and 'labour protection' of teenagers.
5% and wipe_ tooth - Reading room url
`EU.' r

Totma, Vologodekoy 2/0. In the city of Totma
- organized. ‘youth union; ‘I count-
living in its midst 45: members. (t!

’Union’ began to work energetically; at the table
The general premise is captured only by the ears
‚youth. *\

‘It is expected that we will work intensively
among the working youth:

`Ire Votemekoy' organization bbjay obra-
-called ‘section; which should’ de care
`til 0] removing © works of teenagers ‘up to ”14
years and about a 6-hour worker. 3 days and
sprouts’ up to’ 16 years. |

Astrakhan At F.K": M. e9 April
‘the lykola of working youth opens: So
-k®k among students 'bolpgya net workers
© Soviet Melyanits, hour“ work (and® in
evening" shifts, 10' "a question has been raised about
‘freeing young people from work.

Resolution of the commission'. at the department
‘Occupational safety and health’from April 14 ‘weaving the youth, know-
pissing, to school' working youth pr
R.V. 0; M. ‘released’ from work’ in
- black seeds ‘i. and is translated. ‘in’ daytime’s
‘morning: Youth for visiting sheoma
r be released’ ie’ later’ 5 aa-
-sov’ evenings: Technical work according to’pre-
dividing' youth but' and NI
workers. committees"

Novgorod. In: August 1919, Nozbu E,
Okulovekih paper mills: ‘orrani-
called ‘v! communist youth.
And there are months of work left uninterrupted
'ours. results: ''@6uz'' 'sent four
his comrades ‘at’ ‘courses of ‘edge’ officials
tserov, ^ echet sin/ ‘in’ ‘prodberyaya,’ one thing # on
le 15-16

professional movement courses. On the days
‘when Netrograd was threatened, the danger
“The seven best products were singled out”
cabbage soup for. zvlcytes of the hearth of the proletarian roar;

‘zyutsii. r V.

`Currently in. withuse, consists, 38

person. ' u be ®
„Lyuban, Novgorodskaya ‚ tube. Local

communist union. youth ‚ripped off

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. .

85

club for proletarian youth... Vlub
organized and conscientiously, with the efforts of both and"
means, union, without, all, help, p9
storovy: BEDNO Zig) e g taozheto VMB

You're a rarity. convenient and.consists of
several clean and bright ones. . rooms;
there is a meeting room, library library
talnya, dramatic, studiosi, vomita

for sports and. buffet. Sina 1

“Bibliography. _

‚F. Mering. Karl Marx: The Story of His Life,
State. Publishing house; ``Petrograd.
1920. 2.1442 pp. Price (80: rub.:

Finally, the international proletariat
imevt. the life story of your ‘spiritual
father: K: Marx Book) Meringa is rich’not
only. swaps content, but also brilliant,
living 'language' that 'makes a book
so exciting that you don’t want it
break away from her; Moments of personal life,
even intimate ones! her) sides, ‘the author skillfully
combined © moments of ‘rluboka! ‘tense-
ness of thought as a priority continuously
The sign of “our development” is “the image of K; Marisa,
as a person; kind; tender! vemyanina,
eternal emigrant, 'expelled' from. countries
z country; thinking) to pay 104 t6-
high ‘expenses for transferring’ the manuscript; or
Why bury your ‘beloved’ boy?
ka; Pak_velilana thoughts: and the 'great' is difficult
the wavering will of the revolutionary. vom
. At the same time, 910'deeply scientific work,
p6'''which! the reader 'can 'trace,
kan originated and developed it (and its
consciousness of 'Markvah, ‘in’ in part and”
adei scientific hurts ma. 1000:
-’By giving a young tribute to the workers who
‘UFiovia time does not ‘give the opportunity’ to in-
mazelno ‘to study’ ‘votialist-
mesnihonomichevnih i'filovofekia mouth
problem of 'Marnbism' m0 'his 'separate works,
partly too boisterous, partly: elitsh-
difficult for: language; book tov: Meringa
komzhna appear a kind of ‘brief’ en-
cyclopedia on Marqueism issues, - en
tsikyaonedia, in which ‘it’ will find ‘explicit,
precise;Nov ‘protoe! presentation of "Capital"
„Communist Manifesto“, `„Poverty
Philosophy', 'historical works, etc. From
of this work the reader will become familiar with. spirits-
it is the state of the Western European, about-
society of that time, with the noticeable `dis-
the development of individual advanced societies+
ical figures and the broad working masses.
In it he saw a 'bright picture'
First International. On 'ney'he can
educate and fill yourself with ideological spirit
struggle; not’ knowing compromises and’ ‘ven-
timental condescension towards the enemy. ›

Every person’s life has its own
shortcomings and weaknesses, if they were, of course, p in
life of K. Maris. In '16 `time, out alone' va-
fell on Marx, others splashed in order
then no way to make ‘from’ someone’s life - Marx
infallible 'sWatoho; Comrade: Mering' 'i306-

I'm 2%

ngelsa,

razia‘ Markev; alive, money, 9
exaggerating, but not understating either
errors in judgment, none of these errors in.0\
wearing n 'others. Merint strictly 0b'ezaye
en; ‘although’ ‘each lowercase! his’” work” then-
says © with such hot love, tenderness
and with attentiveness he treated ‘every
Details 'in the life of this genius of humanity
''The dishonor of Mering's book is to destroy''
Famous moments of "finibovatya` manu" I 01:
get rid of it! impossible and impossible: This
work ‘with’ inexhaustible ‘richness of content’
zhaniya, ‘naturally, and
not ‘work on’ ‘this’ question: But what
and Ani ‘advanced’ demands her
affiliations: a and b
The ‘book’ was published in a neat, clear font
on a good ‘buiage. “In the beginning” there is a ho
A well-executed portrait of V. Marx. \
We would like to 'strongly recommend this'
book......but in modern times
It's unlikely that many will see it. And see also:
must read "oponiates"
o o Ba

IVM Fritsche: Newest: European) lit-
fatura'' (1900 - 1914); Issue G.^Katitalem
4 sonializi ‘in’ literature: Mogivi;` 1919
Publishing house "Dennitsa". 50' pages`Price 10,290.
Fritsch’s work is not ‘new,’ it
previously published in “History of Our Time”
me" (contemporary culture' of its 'iroble-
us), but ‘was’ unknownon the wide 'steep'
readers 'from' workers, 'so' kan 'not everyone
a worker, and only a worker; mok tu
pisyvatv expensive ‘edition br. Garnet more
than"in 30 issues. And the work" deserves
attention and is of interest, especially
z given. the moment when they say otherwise, ‘no-
ace and argue about proletarian literature,
0 `in6'’ character and’ both ‘her’ tendencies,
unknown to bourgeois literature. `P9-
the phenomenon of work 'separate 'voice m'
welcome. He& will give the reader the worker
bright provision ©. capitalist
literature of the beginning of the last decade,
Unfold the sleepy bourgeois before him.
different integergency in capitalist
general 's6' everyone! 66 ` gusts and beeno-
power in the shackles of bourgeois ideologies,
which captures Veni even’ and ra’
Bochikh writers. Tue and
Eniga nosi" subtitle. "Capitalization
socialism in ‘literature’. This is absolutely true. Wb\
Zeya "reviewed in the second `Yaykeryturb
86

elements of scientific 'socialism, and all
no one else. Poetry of ‘Izliinism’, ©0*
ava `movements, unanimima and uni
but to identify. with socialism neither B
which blouse is not allowed. The essence of the matter is not the topic, but
in r 'and lighting. a
°_ But’ this ‘inaccuracy’ does not detract at all
values of the work, the author divided it into ten
chapters: 1). Reflection. the growth of capitalism in the
teragure, 2) Poetry of the big city, 3) Po-
poetry of machinism, 4) Poetry of means of conveyance
zheniya", 05) ezia "sid" and
6) New art form, 7). Poetry
moral aestheticism, 8) Militant poetry
general imperialism, 9) Poetry of social
movement and social. feelings and 10) Po-
concern with animism and universalism. This su-
The list of chapters in itself must be exciting.
give interest in the book, and everyone who reads
shy ‘her, it will be. enriched many, it is necessary. from
give honor. author, the book has been written. besprm-
passionately, strictly, objectively, which gives. to her
YAZ LLC Ono nto po datoovagetekniy
Besides the special. interest for work -
nikov, in, Proletkults, Fritzsche’s book, has
great cultural significance in general; after all
That's how it is with us. few. a entheoretically
skoe. knowledge of European. literature, › for
exception. individual, authors, favorite
by the intelligentsia. “Ah, now, when we
Let's start a new life and get to know each other. s. artistic
personal literary capitalism, before
poses a special need; because she
mirror, in which was reflected. whole life
bourgeois society. 1...
The book was published neatly and inexpensively.

N. Stepnoy. Nroletary, Publishing Simar-
sky. -ubermek. Asen. Centropezati. 1920
71 pp. Price. 15 290:

Y. (Steppe. (Afinogenov) in literature: not
newbie. He. began to describe in 1904. with
this. time released:. „Otnoe. svaza-
nie", "Notes of a Militiaman", "Tales of the Steppe",
“The Etash of the Great Russian Revolution” and’ ro-
man „Proletariilt, ar Vi eev
“It is clear that the author is deeply worried
described, moments, etc. sensitively, nervously
listens to K. Yslya,. in..beating hearts
their heroes. But.he.doesn't.have more
artistic. talent, “Zamyely, ‘him
grandiose, but the means of fulfilling the restrictions
niyaena,.. + x together
“In his novel “Proletary”, V.Iervoy
parts, Stepnoy draws, a picture of the initial
‘stages of development of professional movement
niya, ® in the second. civil war
Peace of Brest-Litovsk; on. pages of the novel you
meet, many, public, etc. strictly
personal sentiments born." bifurcated
noy psychology. Julia, who feels
grain earth. the power of Mary.and cannot. from-

get away from. caresses. blue cornflower blue UAZ
ly Ace.i. delights, Bolshevism
curses, philistine anger spilled over him,

witness what. we. we come, everyone. day.
Here there are forced and retreats, executions,
requisitions, ‘tears, complaints, joys. pores-
„you..“ In a word, a whole picture of modernity
both joyful and painful. But that's it. on-
almost somehow awkwardly, hastily, nervously,

.‚ PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

“move,”

1

No. 15-16

in some places in ria stida, in some places
a series of long and boring arguments -
``The author is like the steppe, but he doesn’t have a feeling
is created ‘of both wide scope and scale
its pale, there is no that correct, bright
sti i' aromotherhood, which is so rich
steppe NOT paradise

One feels that the author is in a hurry and doesn’t have enough
works on’ his ‘works, like
without keeping up with his hasty, nervous
but with thought, As a result, we met
language errors occur.

But Steiny has it. and your virtues,
which “set him apart” from others. He
one of the first tried to give Tina a so-
temporary public figures who came out
shih from. working environment, without taking it out of
ordinary; everyday life; &; on the contrary,
showing their life even in the distant past, =
he tried to reflect the modern life -
both revolutionary and philistine. And in
this is another merit / He is not completely: ‘sprazileya
zo: your) task; but his words are true; giaz
Nenna.-Aztor is alien to the foreshadowed idea that-
for, prove. He\‘doesn’t: prove, but shows:
vvet; and echo and; triage of well-known literature
great value of the work. outside"

In addition, there are moments in the novel that are especially
interesting diyas of the ‘moment’ being experienced. B
In it you will find discussions about the role of the bourgeois
avnoy. literature ‹ion new ones
thoughts;—about laos, troupe psychology
and its role in creativity. new. shiani; o
difficulties, ‘human rebirth, growth-
tags for certain conditions. The author is like this
and says: ;- I. I'm considering. person in
depending on the technical data, in what part
marriage! are standing. its production center...
those show me what you're doing and I'll show you
you who you are." And finally, about; noplective
nom feeling and volitional will; It's like
since the questions that stand before us,
which have not yet been resolved. life. And! ve-
the face will be that proletarian artist who
the second one with his creative insight under-
looks at these elements of proletarian culture
in the whirlwind of spinning events, it will spoil and
predicts. this lush, joyful path
and solemn blossoming. But... this grandiose
the main problem will be solved, of course,
alone, by force, but by team; particle co-
which one will feel. author. .“Climbed through-
riya“. Willow elom. an. will find moral
satisfaction. And 58: ‚.

at

5208, Polyansyai, |

, ы ‹ ; { 3 gee GO | .V. Belotserkovsky. Collections. stories
“Laughter 9 take the “oles”. Edition. 10d. by the editors
Simdirsky, Gor. Proleteult.. 66 pages,
Price 30 ru0-. : p% VKA INR

The writer is a teacher who visited Europe
swarms. Avni and America and everywhere: on yourself
really, experienced. oppression capitapisia,. by-
this, his; narrations m: breathed. such. strong,
passionate hatred. and the world of evoppuata-
torov. > Me: x a

The stories do not involve any figurativeness,
nor special harmony or subtlety
chology. heroes; their plot. also easy
but... the author's inherent sincerity of feeling,
transmitted! simple, easy language de-
finds his stories interesting.
3 95-6. PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ‚87
- Topics: NOT taken Not silt, `Russian. fa “But the boundless sounds in them: galler: re
carriage Shizni or revolutionary struggle, ) “Ezho ringing” of broken am: OOV: 52;
we are from “LIFE, its “sea”, the unemployed \ This is the “power coming into the world”... and
Italy and Mary! enspirited. take them
`ly blacks, etc. Little familiar to the wider- „Post.
to the reader, the nature described, the promises, the defeated, the pack, etc.

: I -7\ - _It was that “the sorrow of the vanquished is strong
carriage and everyday life give great 2 2 E.
attractive” n strengthen”` viechat- “With Tlubova-olla he is very striking-

t rt he „“Vayushchie:61082:. sotamam el aaaa o No.,
Aztor is not at all interested in olekhnikoy. lit - "Wave the cars, snake the wires,
Ratural work: Transmission of events ‘’Hurry, drive away Unsoon years—
throughout the entire collection, with the exception of “We are in the ‘roar’ of the ‘more’ E ‚days,
In some places, it is reported from ‘the face of Salgogo ** “Our hearts are in the trembling of Byutey as soon as possible.
author, and acting! heroes 'looming - 4 devilish, 'grinding, _ aya
before the reader. for the most part outside. In the smoke and about vvaI 9 AN
developments of events. This could ‘kill the joy of the one who works with the glow,
teres to Zee if: 9 not shaky “Above the glow in the distance.”
stories. . m}
Po. given book:ke ‘to wake up about the future `Isn’t..5t0 not the first ‘sounds of that

yinteralurny fate of comrade. BelotseRkovsky proletarian: the melody that we! eliim
it is impossible. This; the first attempt at writing, she said - U. Gasteva,. Sadofiev, Kirillov’ and others?
says that the author has the makings of a writer, Now this melody is strong, bright, bright
‘knows how to observe current life and clothe the Invader’. I’m struggling with work: and: I drank it thoroughly -
her into literary art. form, tadalih in your mood and then heard
but intensive fabota is necessary, otherwise it was. thinly. first. her, chords, ‘and ‘by’ the-
o = may -zazerlinsya: among; Others are timid and weak in modern times. But

writers will perish, because of this. historical value and'otherwise
Once-A., Pushkin. wrote: Zboysl; They cannot be diminished,

sweet praise! ine. fear the sarcastic ones The poet firmly believes in the triumph of Rav Ir-

ridicule." These enova "came ›. to us' on\paskoy. uzvevdy"; he: “I’m sick of the arrogance.”

crumple when we. read the statement from the editor: “Make mistakes, but go for it!” „ke vaglya-

tions that Comrade Belotse erk‹skiy >90 n of bright AB, anirezvamahi, more audacity and -
he is pretentious” of the “prode” of him and “he exclaims: He knows; what about
"remembered talani!®. "Only what is taken by force,
` The editors, obviously, \alo ‘ViOma ©. with lite- Will be alive; will be killed
military talents - this! ‘times; secondly, s “There will be a matchmaker, “on the run.”

Such ill-considered statements are often

1

spoil the authors by giving them excessive self- And to take force means to enter into |bee-
confidence and love of love, which is a merciless battle, in the NR itself. most
parts were reflected in the “from the author” page. com sense. _ E a a

A. Comrade Belotserkovsky needs a lot more
I need to go fishing. build harmoniously > evoi
things and liberation | it is known: cha |
epodrezhalelnovti, eo ‘proudly; with full consciousness, without. Eve. ext.

RE city Ve; vkh pm, the ‘author’ declares timentality
But... this cruelty is poetic and almost shitty

* Bvg. “Boy, we’re talking about his cruelty” more; He’s only
`Ietrogradekogo, Piookuen' Her, 16 o'clock. “no heart +4 E re snow for the warrior.

Jena 3-00: atCho)
About Tarasova not about Pra Fi something",

Oats rey “Create ‘bean-dead, sparkling word-
p ‚like other poems

“They crushed us, they burned us, they killed us; and now—
We have risen and are marching to kill."

vom
comrades, meanwhile they are ipterene; if Be sensitive, nak’ steel, ‘i’vac steel eco
we'll take into account that they're all harsh,
written during the period of the first Russian revolution - To be valuable everywhere!“ .
tions, then they are doubly interesting; already on
years, the poet had a mood that he deeply felt about the port and the stars of the city. .

tav chyshno about: among the poets He strived I
most days.

Nav now | ar 'vv6tlo-green
I’ll tell you about Asova in the publication. "New
Mara“ 1907 1 about voyage and love
Fovey' she ZI ‚working. More than once they
rested pad this siromyoy 1 m ‚koto-

UP mayme, further ‘past. boring, B
Vienne, safe in
an Mimo 'sopiyhu toi 1
9 Tired.
Torods and villages"

aya during the Artsybasheveko period" But oh I realized that this" "city of oprelzhai"
pavacha to them the power to penetrate, ‘through the pushing- “tomorrow, a clear day,” I
I'm piercing the veil of Stolytsin's reaction in the det- Plots. Eve. Tarasova is free. glad-

This future, born in severe torment, is cut short; osh sings “Endless Fields”,
from the great bowls days of the social world “Spring Streams”, “Night Train North” 5
resolutions. and “Revolution”, “Conversation”. etc. etc. All.

In the 16th century, the poet realized that these motives were richly imbued with some
that proletarian songs are composed of a different mood-call of EralnoaVzhon
“hot machines”, a no-holds-barred fight against bullies.

K
yeah

No.

'ny: OB'
vy baesi hump,. ‘but neither. they didn't have time |

8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

The nervous Russian revolution was defeated, but
poe#! finds the strength to improve
dances and' ori a. 579. }

I

“Bow down” over the fresh graves

1 and more endure, take everything out, or “fall!”
As in: native" ater, "turns to
hoist OD V AI 9

71; ©, wat ‘my nridi! Uabo, ne'piachu?,
359 of us are already silent...Beyond the edges of tiyov
En the earth,
And there is fog on the sea, they loom slightly in the fog
Your deceived thieves. I0, my mother, ‘Wey
undead
Hearts tired of burning and complaining,
"Just kidding, everyone will be drunk and happy"

oooh borscht,
there will be ‘2% everywhere and a feast of plague, and
‘grinding’

oh mother can" we. let's go, we'll find out where
Ure „tevragi,.

Lead. us behind you, ‘carry-imhaoe faithful,
They are already huge! ‘superstitious fear;
Above the ‘pronastio-neks are infidel’ their tags.

I hurry up, honey, we are hungry and
9% FOR I 41 zero s $ nice.
; And: our existing ranks cannot be ‘counted,’”

= we are destroyed by destruction under the city
vet ov

,Resurrect again - negative on the eyes of foam -
0

pain: and biritsichya across the wilted fields,

Like a red, 'smoky whirlwind-zornamio'i
iron.

'will. wave-
` cut
To your fast-running ships."

: and that industry, the fiery prizes, the revolution
Mother-human ‘heard. She prischiz and priz-
oars for your proletarian son is happiness,

0, give me some news—yes’

-not the other he: What is it? ‘oishenerevoy, in

your ry" G m) |
The shelves look like you
"Oral wrote Iro the new poet:

‚: o Onenenirishel, but he is between. us. !
“There is plenty of coal here and there)” about
Yun blows a heavy hammer!
He fans the flames in the forge.
‚In his hands of victory in the name—
‘He is her and vo’on’ga
K, E a
AND ST AND flexible otali
He calls out alien cards,

t
The melodies of will and labor."

`And these naneva we are donkeys now Yabvbyudu.
And the wider they sound, the stronger we are
must! love: and ‘study more’ of their pre-
zestnikov.

Poems E: Tarasova is not inferior,
known from 2t8m and 60 HER of its technical
nicknames t d vet

E Fch.

Ya. Berdia $0 "Pvety si Edition

those I Proletkultia.. 1919 46 Tues.
'Ana

we Bird O 'poet naked, cheerful-
bears the weight of the plant and deceives

Rorod

hit everything that...

‘characteristic of n

 love, to nature. r

hack davi zha ryoya

380. And in this

No. 15-16

put these imprints on him And and

heavy. isyytaniya that we have. at
‘and these other ‘workers’ - 1 U oln.
znavt rod i” „ru ‘shos

„factories, viewing RI
And the trams are ringing. o m va:
“Cuts food; saws food for

But at the same time he

„In the coming days of prophecy
- The world forges the zenith... 0
hedgehogs of darkness into pieces,

whining. life: light,8 ‘magic iraena’s mouth.

Phh He. flowing! freedom of the eye,

years and joy and tey
The same is true for the plant: “ri
„...He growls, burns, ka: hell, es
There's smoke pouring out of the chimneys! and rubbish
noonazdov t nokh
“It thunders, it buzzes; calling the army,
To. break the bright chains.
The poet says this:
Tempered. V. crucible firelycosis,

We breathe with the power of iron and labor,
`Submissive. storms we are on the move. green
The depths of the waters, the giants: toroda.” .
"Our 'brotherly peace!' with fire and ode to death. 2.
‹Sideways under (stonesmetals “about
`Of: stuffy! burrows, ripped-off outskirts, "
goiter” ‘to crush the sinister capital’;

willows ‘the poet is not interested in these, well,
E days, „ ‚„voyev
cheerfulness | fight, Ero, us and

“The wind, the legion-flying wind! x
Now I'm freer than you.

He: with new strength’
Tordo-pyaamenny, dreams, -

Berdnikov writes to himself.’

'His voices are no different' oryaginaya -
the originality of the form, nor the novelty of the images, =o.
they are light at times, breathe freshness,
sonorous and give the desired picture and s001-
vegetative mood. In the descriptions of

„birth“ feels young} ` fresh; 55

why slushy aa ik 05%,

“Whooped, kissed | and shouted
‚ With dvetvii, dy with gravea feast
we {^ whistle.to, worries a ›
‚Over the expanse of the field; | {
„ Md, ‘I can storm with something: g
Will fly into the heavens,
And rushes into the distance behind the cloud-—

Mount Vory Moeva no more"

Oooh this. ‘badbeyno! ok, E
; evaluation of nature
a proletarian mood emerges. ‹
Erdnikhov not so much in the Soviet Union

menyyh. concrete gra ‚moments,
quite a singer. O E to the repressed
`through ilassovaya. ik zmu ‘proletarian -
relationships between CF and everything around

‘’is declared ‘And ‘what you are’ is, art
quite varied, and he. easy with. tet
‘coping. :
No. 16—16

‚ Technical. Of course, there are shortcomings
the times are quite strong. Like shackles
So the author’s feather grass is “hundred-bell.” Create
author, and a new word; "Gawed." UUzkoe
it is not ours, not proletarian. Impossible
The rhymes in the form are also nutritious: “I am in the cart”,
"Elegy"...

The poetry of Ya. Berdnikov with some of his own
sides comes closer to the poetry of A. Pomor-
sky. Both of them aremostly
based on their experiences. All. surround-
something is a reason, a push, it evokes in them
gamut and other

This Zee. ь 11, В, П-й.

Nick. Fishing. On a bright path. Publishing house
nie’ of the Ietrograde `Proletkult. 1919 20 yes.
82 pages. Price 2.f. 55 k. i $

In this: a small defender of everything. eight-
eleven poems; most of
them written before our February re-
revolution of 1917, and only three of ours
joyfully menacing days of storms and rejoicings.
Therefore, talking about ‘any’ new
experiences of the author, born at the moment
struggle for’ communist life, not
Thea's arrival. Our days were not snatched from the author
no burning calls to fight, no endless
separate joy of triumph, But also in the reflective
history of the past, the author is not rich in topics, although
everyone will feel that he is a faithful son
of his class, which cannot be broken
no reaction, no prison, no dumping, nobody
Such persecution is the main motive of his Na-

buildings, AY - he placed
verse: yu
No, be young! t phyto ‘no’

en ‚refund,

And happiness is there. Far ahead

*If you stumble, get up, fall is life
"rich"

“Reinvigorate your soul and go again, go!”

N. Rybatsky speaks Otikh no worse
many other worker-poets, but still
no fe. note; ^what’Chthrough’rhythm and
rationality is visible in the rhyme. .

This collection does not provide material that-
would expand, a broad picture of spirits -
new life, and laid down, in, it
ethical possibilities of expression
feelings. `

Pa V. P-y.

n. Salting. and them. 1910 - 1916 *.
Petrogradek's publication? orbinii ina. 1919
14. page Price 1 rub. 69th century

-A. Kuznetsov. Silences. Edition
Petrogradsky’ Proletkult.>1919, 16 pages.
Price 1 rub. 60 &.. ,

Two small collections - in the first
eight, ‘and in the second - thirteen poems
rhenium, and yet they give, Ted for
some conclusions

Both authors, undoubtedly, have
noetic talent. s

Salting - smooth, calm, at times
even cold; no matter what; o) poet
convinced, here; here

„... the east is vain—- „with
The darkness is thinning, “it’s not far off”,

oh TARUSSIAN CULTURE. ev 89

despite the fact that he is “full of anger,
the fat Sampson is hiding and waiting at) high
which columns “Peru Vooviansky
palace ‚,

There is no sound in his poems. stormy
passions, they are triumphant calm
even in those moments when “the heart! beats
in a rebellious chest." and his duo. "doubts
full."

Kuznetsov. on the contrary, He wows like a “bur-
flowing river." Oool, red banner, fires
struggle, that's it. the element of his creativity. And in
noi "free; mighty 'and proud', half-
full of joy’ before a new life; ‘composes
hymns to freedom; labor’ and calls. "weapons,
forward,” although his capricious heart sometimes
lives. and other moods, as if
unusual for us. seething, tnor-
cheski-combat time. Noet 'intnet:

“I love you when I’m winged”
Night will fall on the ground,
` Then the vast expanse
It's calling me into space.
You, field, sleepy field,
Take me under your wing:
* Let the heart oh
“and a moment will forget evil”

New ones. proletarian / ‘moods they’ in
there is no other collection, and they war-
blowing into the treasury of proletarian noesia,
as a gallery for the study of psychology
potariat as an adult.

: ‚B; Pius,

Vasily: Knyazev. Raging. book. poems
(1905-—1916'). State Publishing House.
Petersburg 1919.2: 416 pages: Price 75,090.

Knyazev, undoubtedly; ‘has literature
new talent; but he is too feuilleton-
uses this talent, transforming
sacrificing the obligation to write on de-
“difficult topics”, as he himself likes to say.
Where even our great poets are dozens
once they straightened out their creations, Knyazev would-
strictly resolves questions instead of images
giving a set of particles, adverbs and interjections:

“After all, how soon?”...
"They're rejoicing. Piyauhi well."

It turns out that this is “well, well”

needed for
rhymes with, line; )

“I’ll shake off my gray hair.”

For the same rhyme to the word “Solloguba”
he picks up the corner and ends the lines -
he rhymes the words “he is with us”, “not a storage shed”; -
"and liberal: even dase"

The comparisons are also original! snow is or
chalk or manna.

But we won't stop at external
on the other side of the creations of the nimbleabout the author and
let's move on to "maintenance. ›

“This is the worst thing in the world;

So sing to someone else's tuning fork,

And in the honest Marxist tazete,

Cheerful news feuilleton.
They read and grin: ; bevorna

Not; harmful, and the thought is not bad:

But, you know... It's not good for us

Such zonality has subsided
90 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

OE: MUSIC S 13: OCH then vis Thu

Oh, strange” vv yy

They need a loud sound

The sub-volume of the futas was exact,

Was warmed by the flame ‘adekim’. s
and Discard these? don’t ‘try;
Show tons of witticisms!
Here' you need: ,Vetavai, ‘rise up’,
and. rhyme “forward” and “people”.

“Tan wrote the author ‘in 1913.

there was a legal working license.

And: these lines say a lot: before
it’s all about a lack of understanding of the tasks facing
literature. ‘Literature! it's not just
“thin needles, sharpness”;: it always’ reflects
class and group: interests of society.
The thing can be very: witty, 'yes-
easily does not correspond to the tasks of the aircraft -
riata, and naturally she cannot. by-
appear on the pages of the workers' press. At that
the time when the proletariat is preparing to rebel
on his enemies, he is absolutely indifferent
but who is from the bourgeoisie. writers and poets
trades his talent and how he suits it
their affairs, Finally and. rhyme: "forward"
and “people”, incomparably higher than many
princely attempts, like: “at once” and “entu-
ziasm * “lutazhiskazat” and “suvazat”.

I. still Vnyazev; lies man 're-
Dovoy.

‘Look; kaz yun ` whips in the department "Lite-
Ratural scales" of their colleagues "in" Peru
Soliokhub, Roslavlev, Gorodetsky, ‘’Tsen-

Zora and others. He himself did not leave the field "Luko-
Sea", Niv. “New time” and never “not
smeared "face paint" - conscious of one's
Excellence remained in Satyricon.

And how ‘he strikes the nascent ones’. past
time of epic magazines

"Almost no risk"
05' 'is the underside
Yaurnal-—-,Viskv“. solo 0
Stories, novels—
without shame. and.conscience,
‚Poems. in
On different topics!..
‚. Solving the regional problem
‹ Rrrnovels:..“
Guard, take care of yours. pockets!“

Similarnew things we do more than once. met U
advertiser, (‚ palkhiros › “Diyadi). Micah”, but
Knyazev, carefully, more talented...

`We are poor midges
Burnt wings...
Take off © tracks;
Yes, teachings are in vain, *

Piptet. about his public troupe
Pnyazev. And yet, despite: despite. add-
passion for life, he proudly and boldly, inhaled
standing up, shouts:

“Get lost, vile three-year-old
Never-ending horror.“

And then ‘ie adds:

"My soul hurts. It's painful" and boring...

To forget" would; go away somewhere...
Or fall asleep

Forever and ever"...

‘boriey,

‘one with
‘to the facts, I suggested a car

‘For happiness, he will not allow himself to be tormented.

No. No.
It turns out that the author's feelings are
the thin needles of the prison are only enough for you
r riki, on to’on and ‘patented intel-
For, not for, the fight. It would be impossible to zenith
everyday.. it’s easy, ‘in’ Fo’ here’s ‘cheerful and
‘When the pelvis 0% of darkness sticks. But,
however, this cannot be demanded from Inazev
fair, because’ he is absolutely nothing
doesn't understand. in social movements.
In 'June and 'years, before the July days,
he stands there with a stupid expression. ‘forward and with confidence
meaningful. ‘brujazhanem:.

° "Victimize? Don't be killed.:
ann rom

no pov prefers to submit
capital, or stand on the side, ‘screaming
blood AE Op. continues:

#

_ “One thing, you can see it in the distance, shi 00
® All that rod is dim)] UFO
That's it, it's hard for me to breathe,
The same pressure, oppression, {
“The same calls.
Forward, forward, AVered:

There are many sections in the collection, but we
We cannot dwell on all of them. Yes

‘poems dedicated to. „St. Petersburg, Pi-

Mayu-vet. poems written “not-
shoy“, which, in spite of everything
‚that 60 deaths
A. Chekhov' literature 'ostvlae and Ia yrya'
and unity." -
HE

He left his throne without a successor,
And here are the fruits: everywhere there is discord, confusion,
‚ Civil strife, mutual spitting,
Rorir hate... Some kind of: black
; gigonyabradya.!,

crack,

Of course, the Olympic Games are not obliged to
study the history of literature, but still close
become complete innocence in aa
no, convenient.

The author's heart is precious, noble and
tea.. 8

“No way, damnI'm sounding, and I'm sounding.

I didn’t deal with sweet PI

I'm in the same city as her and Iivu—

And “I don’t need any other happiness,” s

What sublime asceticism. But is it so
this? Isn’t I. afraid of his E.
second.) And a goat O
> \ I am given ‚doak. squeak)

‘.  IMasvovo, meow
But touch the pancake 1 >
Before: smergiszamuchichi.

The author is a prudent man, -3a minutes
After all,

Nabi o.
Rose suck. be with us
„Turning this into a mess
"And don't miss—

Right. In the chest. cried out."

I ›.it’doesn’t stop the author from dreaming about Zhla-
kidney especially on spring days. That's what he is
emulates:

“It was on the bench
Near the ramp.
L№ 15-16

I'm on my blouse. Keys:
Two French. wow
no
Yeaaa It's cramped. we're on the rocks,
z No aato, 2
From pretty little feet, Alenka
Ya disgusting felt boots...
910731;
Nothing... =
And the end of this fable...
I'll tell you: at Tasenkvi's
Like cherries, blossoming...:
what?
Nothing:

If he gasps, then the noble ascetic...
Kaavochki found two pins on his blouse,
from Alenka he took felt boots, and from Tasenkt
I found red cherries. This is nobility
I'm already becoming suspicious. Afraid of burning-
whose Nastenka, to whom for nothing in the hands of
given, the author’ revels in pleasure ©
three soft and submissive, and most of all
prefers “shepherd idylls”.

“Gum, near the peas,

Tender and light.

Leg spread out

Have some milk. : }
“Three more than su ani,
Longingly Nonna;
Irocco. wishful
I'm sorry) she."

a: department of “Petersburg region”. Here it is:

“Oh, at Kalenka’s
Elate lips...
And for Vatenka m tafenvi
ITostavaen ‘teremok,
`. Khodiye in Katenka with a mustache
{ Lucky guy =..:
I was a bar cook
You're languishing for the day
Above the heat, above the op.
and a stove,
"Suddenly... like those words of yours,
and Double Well done: z9
You, Marfa, are ardent and beautiful
Vadim, here we go.

And here is the iper-eyed janitor; he's arrogant
declares to himself:

„We don’t agree with anyone
On the fourth company—
All kufarki at home
They're pining for Fedot.
Kazhna is calling to the upper rooms,
Tskazhnaya is glad to see you,

And Fedot spits on them,
Because; no need!“

We. far. not yet. exhausted the "First
book of poems by Eklchyazev, it contains four
hundredtoo pages: C’ ‘big. svuko
We read it impatiently, still with re
impatience. We are in a hurry to finish the review.
We are quite. we understand Vnyazev when he
I want to see everything written by him published
new, but what is all the feuilleton material?
published by the State Publishing House, we
absolutely incomprehensible.

P. Rudonol.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 91

Forge. Organ, proletarian writers,

2 1. May; 1920. Edition. Literary. Department
People's Commissariat for Education. Moscow. 26 pages. Price 15 rub.

prisoner of proletarian poetry... Group
its organizers in an editorial statement
characterizes his ‘task’ modestly. .(0-
create original proletarian poetry
c. At present, she considers it impossible
nym or’unbearable for oneself. But she's on-
is trying to “get his hands on in higher organizations”
tion techniques and methods
poetic skill"; 'and already 'then
but’ only then, not’ earlier - proletarians
thoughts and feelings “forged into original
poetic forms, create original
proletarian poetry" (p. 2). Magazine,
therefore, not only’ studio, but
yet ‘already; technically - studio, "hand-made"
bivoc", adhering to the terms of this
preface. Here are the ‘frameworks, tied in advance-
critics: she must judge
from the point of view of the assigned tasks, not
further... to be honest, Chetor is not special
but... big.

Reviewer "Bommuniotim. 'Trudel, di-
heavenstwo mutually dedicated: poetry
nia V Aleksandrovekogo and M. Gerasimov
(“On the Way”), found in one of them “everyday”
Tel-Menshevik worldview,
in the other - creative - creative more -
whist* worldview (“Commun._Labor”;
No. 152; 1920). As we can see, there was a reviewer. not-
I'm right, I went beyond the limits. its boundaries: in
“hand-printed” or “highest technical”
century" sense, it is undesirable to interpret this
dits: one practices on one, the other—
on the other, ‘Do I care? And we can
they would be wrong if, nair., they noted;
that ‘a poem by N. Poletaev, walking
"across! the fields; to the native village" ‘and. aspiring
“quickly get there in the cold” - and
today, and according tocompletely populist images:
yet. It’s still too early to “get into it”
proletarian thoughts and feelings in: original-

“New proletarian poetry.” .

And we would be apprehensive: we would express our fears,
that Klyuev s. Yesenin will be presented with part a6z

x

the exact rights to the poem by comrade. Obra-^

dovicha" "Working"; - the largest ‘share of it’
images and expressions would justify such
claim: there and. Firebird" which
“she covered the world with a flaming wing,” etc. mention
minania. about the ‘unsung’ on the ‘cross’; And. "black"
earthly. palm: edges" etc. But "and" is
Concern editors', Forges' let's of some countries
Niles, would: after all. ‚original proletarian
poetry“, not yet: supposed, ot.troz
one hundred assimilation: “higher technology” of the baptism
some poets..;

Means; What’s left for us? Disassemble;
what are the “achievements” in this advanced technology?
nick"? Unfortunately, not brilliant yet:

Here is M. Gerasimov’s poem “In the Internet”
It starts with:

Don't open your burning eyes
Grave blue snows,

Let the old world go hungry
Screechingly curls around your feet...

Here they are, the highest achievements: there are also riffs
ma- modern (“if they drink, I’ll drink>), and ‘sonorous
alliteration (as many as five in: “yell shrilly

E
92

curls up in your legs"). Nod. how many people are perplexed
no questions! First of all, who is who?
drinks”, whether his eyes are snow, or completely ‘on-
against? Secondly, where is the bittern? who-
is heaven “shrill”? It’s a bird with extraordinary
in a low and dull voice., Then; ‘like ‘she;
c. singular, maybe “get in awe”?
“The masses can” “snowflakes, fluff,
nerev, dry. leaves, dust, perhaps some
anyone: objects captured by the vortex
movement in large numbers. Let
even the “old world”, ‘like. meeting, different
elements, capable of “getting hooked”; new update
once a single drink...

What kind of “high technology” is this? which
reaches quintuple applitation, › sacrificing
and with a living image and meaning?

Or, from other poems `collection-
Nick: .

..Fly the chips higher
From sunny eyelashes:

Eyelashes; as a “tool” for planing! Isn't it
this is a harmonious image, when you understand itth
Anything is possible only after that; how
instead of the word “eyelashes”. Let's substitute "rays"?

A thunderstorm rushes and shakes _
The yawn of Buddha, Brahma and Shaman.

The thunderstorm shakes the yawn... And the trinity is perfect"
but “disparate”, uncoordinated; two' mighty
god 'near 0. modest, ‹ grimacing
healer, etc. d; , y

The only prose story “Mar-
sel", M; Gerasimova. And that one is technically bad.

„—I thought you wouldn’t come, Marcel; there you go
when the cheerful south-west played out, - friendly
ski: said. he.

‚==If he' turned crazy
Samum of the Sahara, if only I were here, -= possible
she spoke briefly but enthusiastically.”

Firstly, it is not short, but long. „To me
and I didn’t think about it myself”—three times shorter. Vo-
secondly, it’s ‘not: enthusiastically, ®. glamorously,

“Comrades, the tea of the great powers is coming.”
knowledge for the world’s work! -= with rise
started Marcel“, ro

It's not. “highest”, a. naive technology -
report that the heroine spoke “with enthusiasm”;
instead of showing it." ‹

Yes’ is worth and, of course, interpreted: about: by”
frontal trifles? -— will say. reader, (Well,
they themselves say that ‘the students study at the highest level
technology,” it’s clear what they need. There will be more
very long. study as long as you can

Someday they will take possession of it. We would be interested

her; another: they must; they express though
would be imperfect, then new that the proletariat
brought into life, his attitude, world-
feeling, the ways of its world-building.

Yes, in essence, criticism is not obliged to
zhagyen within the framework of ‘craft and technical
program which. put forward by the editors
"forges"; we can: criticize this one too
program and other requirements.
But we couldn’t get around it, especially because
mu that the authors of the ebornik discover
significant illusions about dormancy
its implementation. In a critical article by one

==

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 15—No.

of them about another; the latter characterizes-
sya, like “a poet who managed to connect
in his works: all the wealth of technology
nicknames of a dying bourgeois culture and
the proletarian’s sense of collective labor,”
not like a “newbie in m”in the world of art“, but how
“a ruler conscious of his ‘power’... In sub-
fastening there are two stanzas that
ends with the verse: .
“The ringer carved the granig,” standing on.
level is by no means the highest, ‘but’ rather keeping
Vinskaya “technique”. ‘UZ {
No, it's a task; collection supplied by the editors -
Nika, although not very exalted, nevertheless
However, it is not at all easy. specifically for the proletarians
skizh of poets; as light as
barren. And we have reason to think
that she, distracting and absorbing the strength of the young
authors, responded poorly to the content
their work. Contents poor. Proslavle-
revolution, a hymn to collective labor,
pictures of the factory - all these things, of course,
good, and all this is in one and a half ten-
the number of poems in the collection; but if not
count significant deviations towards nz-
kinship, keeping all this in the same
forms, within long-established "frameworks. Not
one can see the broadening of one’s horizons, but one doesn’t feel
Xia development." b.
there are already signs of the emergence of a circle
kovshchina. One is a beginner. the poet writes,
under the guise of a critical article, neggyical
to another, third to fourth: straight path
to self-delusion, narrowing of experience, remaining
new: ”’ ‘ , NY
Comrades, this is not what you should be doing! Nobody
does not require “higher standards” from proletarian ports
bourgeois, technology"; onawami is not in the face, —-
like the manners and costume of a London dandy
(also, after all, the “highest technology” of the bourgeois
everyday life) did not stick. worker-socialist.
We need to study, study widely. and deep
and not “get your teeth into” in tricky rhymes and
attributions. ‚about
You say there is no original one yet
proletarian poetry, you make it dependent
benefit from assimilating the “higher” bourgeois
poetic technique. You're too low
appreciate it, comrades, and you don’t know where
look for her. There is little of it so far in the form of poetry and
prose; But. the life of the proletariat is ‘full’ of it,
the thought of revolutionary socialism is full.
Look for more and better. You think it's not enough
her in purity and companionship
solutions, harmony and cohesion of work
many organizations, in revolutionary scientific
criticism of Marx in his socialphiloeophy-
what kind of creativity? And if you yourself are alive
particles of the growing columbative soul pro-
letariat, ‘if’ you know how to see with his eyes,
feel it with your heart, then through creativity
yours. perception’ you: will find ‘this moesia’ in
all’ nature; g in all greatness; that '0
created by the efforts of humanity, labor.and on
scientific knowledge and artistic 0/'0-
the turmoil of the world; Then: "you! will have it, then
“to say, and by itself’ you will find how to say

A. Bogdanov. :-

oh darkness
APC] and A\e 9 C t mk
G 2: EO m en KAZH = Ku o y $
at no. 1st 5 oo No. 41”, DI; and Teas S to.
vonuya “Ya9—A 1 pos AA ): G

with em. rey 1 NOT. EAO V EYA wono K.
5 Organ of the Central Committee. All-Russian Council Proletnult..i
- No. E 1918 July, From redakiya—Under the banner of manifesting itself. IN! Polashcheki - "Prolet"

.—-— "Orgaya ‘flight.’ amateur performances.^-—er; chtsev.--Prode 1 not. m
F›“Kalitin.3 What is ‘proletarian’ poetry? I. Baldin OVO are'r era. In
ševeky > Kosovo Veeross!conference: kjprkhrab:ore_Organ. ‹ Blur.Chronika’ „Proletkult” ‹Ot
Erivtseva - Bibliography Red Light: Xx—)Nlamya’” “Creativity”. 0.4 „“Coming”. PP"
No. 2. Jul Nationalaizi i socializi: V. Polyaneliy, Our ‘criticism? Se Kayar (I; `Bozdanov-

—————- Workers' Club: F. Katin. Idvaya Vosniania 4 Bogdanov -—Kosozyvuo`Vserosskh
Conf. prol. kr, ‘organizations: Theses’ of reports: Revolution and’ cultural tasks of the ‘proletariat’
In: Polyanekiy. - Science and. working class, A. Bogdanov: t riati iskuestvoz A Lunacharsky >
Idwals of socialist education. pyanova (NN: Erupskaya). - Iron "messiah? Vl Ki?
Rildov.—Funeral. 4. Pomoreniya.— Miracles of work. 4. ’aste.--Chronicle’, Proletkult’: Deut.:
FROM letkult". I. LV province.^ 0. `Privtsov. —-Bibliography: Literato Al"
manah V P. - “V. Timiryazev. Red Banner” 4.;`0:—Izvebtiya Moskov. Flight. /Un-tar Danon
No. 3. August Motives of working poetry. V. Polyamekii Chalice of Criticism, StamyatA. Bogdanov:

s - Circle work. Art. Krivtsov.—Class Theater. V. Malinin.—To the convocation
All-Russian conf. prol. k.-pr. organizations. Abstracts of reports: Preletarian Club. St. Erivtsov.—Norma
representation and work plan of the conference. Organ. Bureau.—Chronicle., Proletkulta“: In the provinces.
Art. Erivtsov.—Bibliography: A. Bogdanov. “Red Star” and “Engineer Manny”. 0. D.-J.
Tierso. Celebrations and songs of the French "revolution". 1. `R. - Two reviews. A. 0. - From the editor.

Comrade N. Lenin, V: Polyanekiy. Methods ore and methods of cognition. A. Bogdanov.
No. 4. September. The path of proletarian criticism and the poetry of DU Gastev. F. Ealinin.—Labor re-
nutritious and productive work in the new school: V. Polyaneky.—What should a worker be?
club N. Erupskaya. All-Russian Union of Workers' Writers, V. Ignatov.—Towards the convocation of the All-Russian Assembly.
conf. prol. k.-pr. organizations. Abstracts of reports: Workers' cooperation and proletarian cultural
construction. N. Vasya: asya ‚0 gland. Poems. M. Gerasimov.—Chronicle

“Proletkulta”: Moscow’s “roses L” et provinces. From. Krivtsov.—Bibliography:
A | Ie kk No. 1. V. G. “Creativity”. A. O— B.

"The Future". P.L.—“Flame.” About Liter
Kirillov. Poems. P. .L.—-V. Fritsche. Letarian poetry. V. G.

The year of the proletarian dictatorship. V. Polyansky.—Ideology of production. F. Nali-
No. 5. November. Ning. - Proletarian University. A. Bogdanov. — Organization of literary
creativity. V. Kerzhenshchev.—First All-Russian Conference. span. cult.-enlightenment.organizations,
V. Kunavin. —Resolutions of the conference. — Chronicle of “Nroletkult”: In the provinces. Art. Erivuov.—
Bibliography: “Gorn”. V, Polyansky. - “In Storm and Fire.” V. P-tsy.—“Wedding vestments.”
A.O.—“From the kindergarten diary.” E. Khersonskaya. - “The Crucible.” V.G.—“The Coming Culture.” P.T.

o International revolution and proletarian culture. V. Nerzhentsev. —
No. 6. 1919 February. About O, F. Kalinmin. less frequently questions. V. Polyaneky. —
Working methods of Proletkult. V. Kerzhentsev. — Theory and practice. T. Sedelnikov. — Plan
organization "Proletkult". - Suburbs. Poem. M. Rudbinitein. — Proletkult Chronicle:
In the province. 0. Krivtsov. — Proletarian: cult.-enlightenment. organizations. — Bibliography: “Prole-
Tara collection." V, Polyansky. - “Messenger of Life”. IN.Kunavin. - “The Coming Culture”. P..L. —
.“Firewing plant”. A. 0. - S. Malashkin. “Muscles”, A. O. - S. Yesenin. Transfiguration. V. G. -
P. Oreshin. "Red Rus'". V. G. - S. Sredinsky. “Fundamentals of newspaper business.” M. M. - “Zarevo”
Factories." V. Polyansky. - “The World and Man”. P.L.

M. Proletkult and Soviet cultural work. A. Lunacharsky. - Our for-
No. 7-8. Apr-May. and those V. Polyansky. — Essays on organizational science. A. Bogda-
present—0About the professionalism of workers in art. F. Kalinin.—About professionalism. V. Pletnev.—
Collective creativity in the theater. V. Eerzhentsev. — About Futuriema. F. Kalinin. — Soviet poetry
provinces. V, Polyansky. - “To the priests of art.” Poem. V. Kirillov. - Aviators. Rusk;
A. Shlyapnikov. — Model charter of the Proletkult club. All-Russian Sov. Proletvulta. — Chro-
nickname "Proletkult": In the provinces.—Instructor courses. Art. Nrivtsov.— Conferences, — Father
you.—Bibliography; A. Sidorov.—“Revolution and Art.” 0. D.K.—Zalevsky.—“Art
and the proletariat." He. Erivtsov.—Groshik. Stories. P. Rudokot. — V, Ignatov. "Wedding Party"
P. Rudoko*.—“Beeps.” V. G. - “Our Gorv.” V. P - y. - “Red Morning”. 4.0.

s its Proletarian culture and its critics. F. Kalinin.—Essays on organizational
No. 9-10. June-July. noah you are 2nd. A. Bogdanov.—Ch. Darwin and K. Marx" by V. Tilirya-
sound - Peznayie in the light of history. V. Polyansky.—Growth of Proletkult. 0. Rainin.—About trends
proletarian culture. 4. Gastev.—On the trends of proletarian culture (response to Gastev). 4. God.
Banev.—On pre-primary proletarian universities. A. Bogda’0v.—K. closure of the proletarian

Khroshik "" "Proletkult"" In the province: '0. Rainin, - Report - B:

M. Gerasimev! “Spring Plant” and “Flowers Under Fire”. 0. L.-E. Alexandroveky: “A worker

elephant “North”! B: P-ii.—A. Pomeranian. “Flowers of uprising” » In N-th t, Proletkult,
about ve

tah tk
in ‚De
M 75

M. V. Polyansky—The beginning of proletarian aesthetics. 4. “Moon-
No. 1-12. December, dinner. and ‘organizational science. Article 3. 4. Bogdanov. -Prole-
tariffization. science. M.Omit.—On the methods of work in P her lts. F. Kalinin. - Study of work -
processes, M. Smith, - -. Locomotive Cemetery. M. 38 readings. M. - Chronicle.
"Proletkult". IN SCHE. Exchanged Her E. 0. Work. Tambovsky

ProletwoodtasE. 1 r a Same
And V, ov, Ras O:—N. t ditch, ma and 'A. O.V. Kunov.
swings* U U K
g. and - her about I L
o: -Siepanov.o rep political [save r $ r A in y
s t A oe. |
at, January mochiyoshih. ni and
and ore. Army V i e o i, science. Sl.-4-ayan 4. “Boeda-
About Davi Ya. IolyaneknyaineTruthness or Refinement"
in fine art, V. 4084708.
Ro ozakol I am in the middle
tovkh" Chronicle of "Mroletkult":
Porto Dynamo Toli Ino
Binsky “Proletkultaya eV; Pius ‹
he „PozviavoygRoSenit” I.t.
Beoaino`, and; Avinina "Pre 1"
and the art of the French Revolution." m e .
Vusstvogn G. RUdojot. > oso: “Science: vi AC I and 18 NA. 2 and.
CHAMEOA EN JSC aarh GVbOOKYUIE Zo mo . 'd o
VMO about zelzschy ZO 5ukya Noa IE dy E Na 186 }
"inivnaodi a tairizkovit. Pe 206% "kis Toda iva" N VSK

5-0 about NanaM. danazhn a gov and VN. Avi omkona— 50 0
„vniitoCh TO IV „mmena tyr court Eta NN y VET: t ge

zonoboa K `NNNVNEOY in

00a ACHG FF NOT A SKY B nuntnaya. May20 KOI. no

ANROEVa dy NaZhKOd KYu Mik AoZV, :' TY 8. Van doZenokya oak, 5 aa
950495 aaeo5 whose "Zatateoni and I Zy onee UMA. No. I
zoneutakiya zovoChegoyai. but vylaozzoom, Input, Yandwe Ziazao CHI ov ododa faoh
vyanno9 5 M „HIT „ZEEVAZH.V vN25 $ \ oztovatyo about
ee : kA, 4) but NyYA t r atamoi r
ao ba JON AT }

plucked to reap." educated

M o dat edochenoav, inlovoel Ve
He looked into these guys about Cho's No.
An bath Choaasoi-tatavya a rofnoya t ranks
oZomeAyoKiU onatni yy t
"XENA Curtained 1;
A HF

no
II A a "VAO
TYA oh vhnvo<i- zen voska ernY 9
>. oh in Anna: Nova

A kN: ;

- zy yo A, ENAE "EY `n otooz Ze vioaaiezhaM 2

wallpaper about Thief I about PE r S et Ab. 8%.

IVA 655568 M re N vnboet - days ^. AevoCh, o98a building
Evtat untovochi I BANTOM hnto RN tighter kon Ni 4190

Oma lv OE } «nivenin au 'ZoOITav Eno Enoa ovom. A” Zanonyaoni 8
U a a i & ENEN NII O9y; — Bo >00

== 2: Jo omyaozhnasozaennivyo hi yuu o AAA wat No. 9380” In \Nykyyyaznyao Co.

UAE - in AI kv EkomovAaEo 484950, AyaonyaNo) $ ;. per m r t

"OA en a
her UlaVy EYA TEY

o

-VEIEN V

AK t`vtoOBa

Ube No. A NONNONIVENIVCHOa. IYaZEO MIZRLOKHT 4 ko I NV]

NiT SEMENAENONOYA efovi © ke ‚. © ‚Et ao 2 KhNROdva EMENTSENOE 52 nya you
Vozhtaaoo and OE NEW. U EMENIO IO S E zoztZeraoat zonantya
Ulcer" teaA and B NTO "VAZEUMON MEA, about ibmiZnakko A VI

x zy 309) VA \ orteltyatevochI „LOKHA. VET Nynaammiot I. -—^ zom
WE? opofnoy! A yum S o iminazodi. I “rtavuyatoloya7
: her you iZNet ve M in poi 98 4 ‘ododnyu a ‘oe chovnokya
5“ a Zo 0. A Chata
and AE 9

t eoai avoan would g G

OE andU outside NoN

AU A. I „an onnaaa V oolomooa V
khninar ET O - ii 0 O O
56 „V eorov teato) CHU nae No” iachetetsosn hvniednat O--- emi V, malek IezchEtekoChi
d volume onifyavE 6 U oo „ Ivtotyas {eanih hnyazavtkochiohai food 9

blame t = 4 E asi <. Layarlik

op Vngodv "Published ono A 3 L manto pop mt. ,

"and

t ibotvodayit>. ›ato, ›Iniodomo A—$
Govubiratenoye 'excess {0% ^

1st State Gyrography Brio ev EN o

- Price and

ai: from “vorovtsev indicating-. . g
nah’ on the book Xena there is no limit to be
increased, -\

_ State Defense is an obligation.

Out of print: and =
8. Bessalno and F. Kalinin. Pbenyi, ry kuziur: yh E
” co-publishing house “Antey”, 80° page: Tsya 19

R. Pelshe. Morals and art of the French | b 1Gocularity -
“publishing house: 52 pages, c. 12 rubles _
"Proletarian Culture". Collection of magazine 1-10. p: "one Zae
Second edition. State publishing house. Price 35. rub., -
"Proletarian Culture". No. 11-12. Price. 12 rub. No. 13—14: Price 25 rub.
Organization of Proletkults. Charter Organization plan. Conference. t
Studios. Proletarian Club. Diagrams. Price About in
Floor banner of Proletkult. Collection <Fatey V. Kerzheitsova) A, Puzachar-S
sky; In: Polyansky. Price 20. rub. . E
Science and. Proletariat. With us. ‚aatey A: Botero, B, `Pozyaybnogo. vi
“Price: 20 rubles: a
Proletariat: and art. from boron Articles by A. Bogdanov $. Kalinina
Price: 20 rubles. -

Portraits. F.I. _Kaliniya. p. 138 `BesvalkO. hedgehog 5 in:

. Are tossed around:

In memory of F.I. Kalivin. them ii A. Bokhdanbvi A. Koizoyatay,
A. Luvavarsky, V. Polyansky and others. ’

A. Bogdanov. Elements of reculture: c. "worker development

class,
Proletarian poetry. Collection of articles. ^. Luazarekoto, A: Bogdanova,
In: Nolansky;: >. }
_. Methods of work of Prozekult. r 'articles -F. Kalita, and
B; Kerzhentseva, and ID N: Pre them

1st erineva topography, orshchiai, m2 Named 25,000. Ziveik.