About all countries, soybeans

r

Proletarian Culture.

MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
Organ of the Fentr, Committee: All-Russian Council of Propetcult.

Address of the editorial office and office: Moscow, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 26-30.
Reception with the editorial secretary daily from 10 am to 4 pm.

No. 9-10. June—July. 1919
(9
CONTENTS: Proletarian culture and its critics, Ch. Kalinin. —Essays |
organizational science. From. 2nd, A. Boanov. — C. Darwin and K. Marx. K. Tima-
Ryazev.—Knowledge in the light of history. V. Polyansky. —Growth of Proletkult. 0. Rainin,
trends in proletarian culture A. Gastev—0 trends in proletarian culture
culture (response to Gaotev) -4. Roanov. 9 provincial proletarian universities

sitotah-A, Roanov, No. closure of the proletarian university. -- Chronicle of Prolet-
cult: In the provinces. 0. Rainin.—Reports. — Bibliogri, Gerasimov. „Plant
1 |

r spring" and "Flowers under fire", 11. "T. - V. eksyandrov: "Workers' village" and
E "North". V. P—ii.—A. Pomorbky. "Tsy of the uprising." V, P-th, - “Flight-
\. cult." A. 0.—"Proletkult" I. Rudokon.—"Work and Creativity." P. Rudokop No. RU

Proletarian culture and its critics.

The question of proletarian culture, despite the conquest of numerous
supporters, continues on the other hand to be subjected to fierce attacks
deniyam. At the same time, it is worth noting that this question has been raised and developed
expressed by the communists - Bolsheviks (by the Menshevik theorists
he always meets with the most hostile attitude) and yet ‘in our
party circles and in the circles of the Soviet Government he is not yet
is entitled to the full right of citizenship, but is only tolerated. When they are in good
stuffy mood, then the attitude towards this issue is expressed in condescending
significant despondency, and as soon as complacency disappears, then the attitude corresponds
changes significantly. What's the matter? To answer this question,
It is best to divide the opponents and critics of proletarian culture into
types and describe the essence of their criticism. ‚

To the first type of critics of proletarian culture I include those who
shrovodyag difference in essencebetween the concept of proletarian culture and
socialist culture. This type of critic generally denies the possibility
proletarian culture, while to one degree or another continues to exist
to take over the bourgeois system, and the proletariat exists as an exploited
class. In this situation, in their opinion, the proletariat has to create its own +
I don’t have enough time or energy for cupture. As for the socialist
kuztury, then they do not deny its possibility, but date it to complete
formation and strengthening of a socialist society. I think it's like this
this kind of approach reveals all the signs of metaphysics, it means considering
culture, as something absolute and immobile, resulting in certain
and unchanging forms. From the point of view of the most elementary concepts of Marxism
Such views cannot withstand even the slightest touch of criticism. Position
of the proletariat in capitalist society as a source of public
values and the exploited class made it the cornerstone
<socialist expectations and their bearers, which means that from the first steps

1
2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

of his conscious struggle for the ideals of socialism, he thereby laid the foundation
the foundation of socialist culture (or proletarian culture, which for
we are one and the same). The difference between what already arose in bourgeois society
proletarian culture and the culture of socialist society are not
society, but according to the degree of development, volume and color. As long as class exists
struggle, then the developing proletarian culture will preserve this
class coloring, in essence it is also universal, like culture
tour of the future socialist society, I think there is no need to prove
that in a socialist society culture will not stop developing and
be subject to change. |
The second type of opponents of proletarian culture consists of those who
limit the scope of scientific socialism. They limit his competence
outside of the social sciences only. This type of opponents of the proletarian
culture is the mostmore common. They will be with conviction and fervor
talk about proletarian politics and economics, they find no opportunity
extend this view, for example, to the exact sciences, and if you point out to them
at the possibility of such thinking, they will laugh in your face. "Why is this
“is happening,” the reader will ask in bewilderment. This can only be explained by special
limitations of their thoughts, inability to consistently disseminate
your thoughts on those areas that go beyond the usual circle of thinking. When
they have to consider the question of political order, then they, as a mark-
sists, will correctly consider it in a specific situation and approach
to it from a practical organizational point of view in the interests of the proletariat.
But the same political science can be viewed abstractly
in themselves, as they tend to consider the exact sciences outside of their practical
application, this kind of definition will not differ at all from drill-
zhuaznogo and essentially will be correct. oh no 'science
is the doctrine of the system of organization of the state.’ But with such a definition neither
one Marxist cannot be satisfied, despite the fact that in general it
right. Revolutionary. the Marxist will be forced to give a definition which
a swarm comes closer to concrete reality, for example, a definition; —
“Political science is the doctrine of the class system of state organization
“gifts” are much closer to reality and more acceptable. It's possible
to reach a definition that fully corresponds to the modern consciousness of pro-
Tariat.

This type of our critics has a completely different attitude towards, say, ma-
topic, Considering it, or determining their attitude towards it, they somehow
forget the class point of view, the proletarian point of view, and are inclined
it is unacceptable to accept it as such, & not in application to specific
issues of social reality, Mathematics and other exact sciences,
as we have said more than once, they are important to us not in themselves, but in the interests of
what and by what class they are used. It was not for nothing that they said even in Bur-zhuaz society, that the science of this society is its servant, the goal
application of science determines the way to approach specific practical problems
and influences the development and change of her being. Our critics divide the sciences
into two categories—one social, for consideration of which the class point
vision is a matter of course, ordinary, and technical science,
applied nature, for which the class point of view is somehow not considered
is necessary, because these sciences do not directly and directly involve
class interests are dying. The inconsistency of this type of our against-
nicknames can only be explained by the habit of ordinary thinking on the scale
which was established by the early teachers of scientific socialism. They are in their
time did not touch upon these questions and this type of science, simply because
there was no historical need to touch upon them. Direct political and
economic struggle has historically forced us to hold the front of the struggle
tariat on a certain scale, and to expand it would mean wasting
in vain, the situation is completely different now, when the historical moment dictates
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 8

We need to expand and expand the front of the struggle. Our critics
of the second type have not yet bothered to think that any kind of science
in itself, outside of specific tasks it has no meaning for us,
she is brought into service for the purposes of some class, some
organizational practice.

The third type of our critics is the least common, perhaps
because it is only just beginning. A clear exponent of this type is
Alexey Gastev'). He reveals a claim to be scientific and experimental.
the uniqueness of the approach to the issue of proletarian culture. Class struggle theory
for Gastev, scientific knowledge is insufficient; he considers it too simplified and
mental, to build the prospects of proletarian culture. For Comrade
Gastev’s philosophical constructs of Marxism are not enough, you see,
“reeks of Eastern philosophy.” Not being satisfied with theoryher class struggle
and labor theory, comrade. Gastev believes that to test the path of the proletarian
culture is possible only if we engage in a thorough study
the difference between the types of industrial proletariat and the types of non-Russian backward
proletariat, & Western European © its automobile, airplane and
military industry. The path of development of proletarian culture comrade. Gastev
indicates in the study of the tariff and standard classification of working types
industrial industry, with its production standards.

All instructions from Comrade Gasteva would be extremely convincing if,
indeed, the technical movements into which the physical
labor, were of decisive importance in the development of proletarian culture, pro-
Tara ideology. Study of simple movements in the labor process of a worker
interesting and significant for the development of production and its technical side
and administrative and organizational management of the enterprise, but these psycho-
technical data will not be decisive and determining. values
in the formation of proletarian culture. No matter how great the importance of developing
folding technology, no matter how important the folding type is in this context
production and forms, the type of labor in the formation of culture—still this
has only partial influence. Culture is defined like ideology,
method of production and the position of the class, and not at all so simply formed
ruetsya, as provided by comrade. Gastev. Gastev fetishizes technology. Not
we must forget that the life of a worker is not limited to his profession, he has

` there is a very complex in its diversity of life outside the factory, which determines
divided by class position. Let Comrade show us. Gastev for any
industrially developed country, where the professions of workers are somewhat
seriously affect their way of life and their cultural level. Quite different
matter of class position in production, the most minor changes
This situation is immediately reflected in the cultural life of the workers. Here
example; under the tsarist regime at the Oormovsky plant at the premiumworked in society
and Air an worker. This circumstance in a certain way reflects
elk and at home. When a young worker wanted to move from a single life to a family-
new position, then the future wife and her closest relatives must
were to buy this groom, give him a dowry, and besides, by establishing
According to the current custom, feed for a year or more. The man was valued as the only
ny employee. Due to the nature of production in Sormovo, a woman could not
use your strength. The situation is completely different in the textile region of Moscow.
At some factory of the Baranovs, mostly women worked -
weavers. There were relatively few men, and most of them were in such
professions that paid less than weavers. This increased the price
the number of women and upon marriage, the man had to give a dowry
future wife, and not vice versa. All this had a certain impact on
the position and life of a woman and her cultural level. So if we want

1) A. Gastev’s article “On the trends of proletarian culture” is included in this
Magazine no. 7 b
1*
I AM PROLETARIAN CULTURE. . №'9—10

/

to seriously trace how the culture of the proletariat is developing, it is necessary to study
the emerging type of production as a whole, the economic
the position of the proletariat and its reflection in everyday life, without denying the importance of technology
nicknames of industrially developed enterprises and new emerging types
professions of workers in the development of proletarian culture, we still say
that this alone is not enough. We must not forget that in a socialist society
in society, socially necessary labor will take up significantly less
time than now, which means that the formation of a socialist
culture will be dependent, in addition to technical and other
factors, from those forms of economic situation in society that
are huddled together as a result of the new socialism. production.

The failure of our critics is obvious and is unlikely to cause serious
doubts. In our approach to the question of proletarian culture, we proceed
from scientific societylism, from its materialistic understanding of history,
which says that the production process determines the attitude of people and the whole
their ideology. The proletariat, by its position, is the bearer of social
stic ideology, and consequently, the bearer of his proletarian sympathy
cialistic culture. The creation of socialist ideology is those
the beginnings and foundation of proletarian culture, which, as the class grows,
new consciousness of the proletariat and its conquest of political and economic
power is expanding in its scope and content. The moment we are experiencing
dictatorship of the proletariat imposes even greater responsibilities on the working class
in the sense of a conscious and organized approach to the issue of proletarian
culture. And precisely now, when there is a fierce struggle to strengthen
and expansion of the power of the proletariat, we must identify all possibilities
emerging socialist culture. But organized struggle is possible
is possible only when we create conditions for the manifestation of creativity
ical forces of the proletariat. This circumstance dictates to us the need
have its own organizational base, as its party has in the field of political
Sky. It would be strange if the proletariat, having risen to power, gave broad,
the opportunity to create cultural institutions for all segments of the population if only
they were loyal to the proletarian government, and the proletarians themselves
I did not give this opportunity, as our opponents want. Everything is
attacks on the organizational independence of the proletariat in the region
cultural on the part of our party comrades seems to us
some monstrous, ugly limitation of thinking, its inconsistency
attention. If we mixed our organization with all the others
strata of the population, this would only result in unnecessary travel
support in the cultural development of the proletariat. How does a party formalize its
political line within his organization, and then spreads it,
influencing the entire population, and our proletkults, being an organiza-
qional laboratories of proletarian culture in formalized form, dis-
extends it to the entire population of the Soviet Republic. We know
That the task we set ourselves is not easy; but that won't force
us to abandon it, in addition to overcoming the prejudices of bourgeois culture
tours, which have penetrated quite deeply into the proletariat, we still have to
overcome the limitations and inconsistency of thinking crammed with goods
riches. But ultimately, this should not confuse us, the logic itself
life works for us and, if our words are powerless to overcome the limitations
inconsistency and inconsistency of thinking, then the facts of life are too “stubborn”
thing” to ignore them.

Fedor Kalinin.
„No. 9—10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 5

Essays on organizational science.

Basic concepts and. methods!).
A. Organization and disorganization,
t,

The first attempts to define precisely what an organization is led
to the idea of expediency. The concept of organization then, of course, referred to
only to living beings, and the starting point of the study was taken separately
ny organism. The expedient arrangement of its various parts and the purposeful
their connection was not only obvious, but upon further study this
their character emerged more fully and deeply, striking in its perfection.

The idea of purposefulness contains the idea of purpose. Organism, organ-
nations have their own “goal” and are organized “in accordance” with it. But the goal presupposes
someone who puts it and implements it, a consciously active being who arranges
tel, organizer. Who exactly supplied the human, animal,
plants those goals that are achieved in its vital functions? Who
‘arranged organs and tissues according to these functions? This one is completely natural
for ordinary thinking, posing a question immediately deprived the research
the formation of any scientific approach, directed the efforts of thought in the field of metaphysics and
religion, led to the concept of a personal creator, God. And there are still priests
of all religions, Christian and non-Christian, into the basis of “apologetics”, i.e.
theoretical defense of religions, I putt the “expediency” of the device of living
creatures

With the development of science, however, it became clear that those relationships that
expressed by the word “expediency”, can arise and develop completely
naturally, in the absence of any “subject”, consciously placing
general purpose - that in. There is an objective expediency in nature. She—
the result of the world struggle of organizational forms, in which the forms are “invaluable”
forest-like" or "less expedient" are destroyed and disappear, "more
expedient" are preserved: a process of natural selection. And the most understandable thing is
In this case, the concept of expediency turns out to be, in essence, only an analogy
or, rather, a metaphor capable of misleading. It is clear that it is not
suitable for the scientific definition of organization.

Attempts to formally define organization as harmony or
the correspondence of the parts with each other and with the whole also does not solve the issue; this is
simply replacing the word “organization” with its synonyms. We just need to find out
the thread of what this correspondence or harmony consists of; & otherwise there is no benefit
put one designation in place of another.

Biologists have long characterized the organism as “a whole that
greater than the sum of its parts." Although, using this formula, they themselves are unlikely
whether they looked at her as an exact definition, especially in view of her external
paradoxical, but there are features in it that deserve special attention,
It does not include a fetish - a subject who sets goals, and is not reduced to a tautology.
gy, to repeat the same thing in other words. And its apparent or actual
a significant contradiction with formal logic is not in itself anything
‘decides: the limited meaning of formal logic is fully established
scientific and philosophical thought.

What, in fact, was meant by the words: “an organism is a whole,
which is greater than the sum of its parts? In what sense or respect is he
more than this amount? The issue is obviously about his viability, about his
strength in the fight against the environment. In a disconnected state, how many parts are
any complex organism has the ability to surviveeither infinitely or infinitely

{) This is the second article in a series of “Essays on Organizational Science.”
6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

small, or so reduced that the sum of its values, if removed
could be expressed numerically, would, of course, be much less than the value corresponding to
corresponding to the living whole: a body devoid of a hand, and a hand cut off from it -
Naya is a sufficient example. But to study the question on such complex systems
‘max, like an organism, and on such relative, difficult-to-measure values,
as vitality, everything is less convenient; it's better to start with combinations of more
simple.

This is, for example, elementary cooperation. Already the connection is the same
the loss of labor in some mechanical work may lead to
the growth of practical results in greater proportion than the quantity
of this workforce. If the matter is, let’s say, clearing a field of stones,
bushes and roots, and if one person clears 1 tithe per day,
then two together will do not double the work in a day, but more, 21/, - 91), de-
satyina. With 3 or 4 employees, the attitude may be even more favorable
pleasant—to a certain extent, of course. But it is not excluded that
the possibility that 2, 3, 4 workers together perform less than double,
triple, quadruple work. Both cases depend entirely on the method of combination
given forces. In the first case, it is quite legitimate to assert that the whole
was practically greater than the simple sum of its parts, in the second - that it
there is practically less of it, the first is designated as oryunizdvannost, the second,
as disoreolysis.

So, the essence of these concepts comes down to the concept of acts taken
with her tr * sides; and for complete clarity of the formula about the whole, which
more or less than the sum of its parts, it must be supplemented with this word
"practically". Then it becomes a simple expression of the certainty,
an indisputable fact. And yet, from the logical side, there is some paradox
there is still some truth in it, at least for the average modern
communication, It easily imagines how to connectnumber of activities
can reduce their practical amount; this happens when they
antagonize each other, completely or partially paralyze each other,
destroy—in a word, mutually “disorganize.” But how did
ranks can unite in such a way that this increases their practical sum?
At first glance, it looks like some kind of creation out of nothing,

In reality, the riddle can be solved simply—you just need to provide
organized activities together with the resistances they overcome
share of currencies Why do two workers work together to clear a field?
in, and, for example, 91/, times faster than one? The economist responded to this by pointing out
there are such moments: firstly, the very collaboration of work gets on the nerves
the employee’s system in a revitalizing, encouraging way and thereby increases
labor intensity; secondly, the combination of two forces allows one to overcome
obstacles, each of them individually exceeds, and many obstacles
actions that do not exceed it, but are significant for it, can be overcome much
faster. Let us examine both of these moments, starting with the second, which is easier to
going to analysis. ;

Let the muscular strength of each individual worker allow
him to lift and drag a stone weighing 65 pounds, but no more, Two
can cope with a stone, of course, not 10 pounds, but less, because
it is impossible to combine efforts without loss, i.e. without some mutual understanding
bellows: this sum will always be less than the result of simple addition;
Let's say it is equal to 9 poods. In this case, a stone of 8 pounds for one
employee's resistance is either completely insurmountable, or
‚ requiring a change in the method of work, which means, in any case, a significant
significant unnecessary expenditure of energy and loss of time, for example, for splitting
stone with a hammer or on a lever device for its movement, Coordination
the combination of the forces of two workers eliminates the insurmountability or need for
changing methods. If the stone is less than 5 pounds, but close to it
limit, then the individual worker is forced to useb to him the greatest

No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. at

tension, which sharply depletes one’s strength and spends much more
time, while for two this weight is much below the limit, they remove
it with medium tension and quickly.

As for the “psychic” influence of cooperation, it relates
to the internal resistance of the body. When working alone, the worker
undertakes and performs all actions on his own initiative and
own incentives; for each new act he has to completely
independently train your neuromuscular system accordingly
apparatus. In joint work, a significant proportion of this process is adapted
understanding comes through imitation, that is, much more mechanical, more
automatically, in which for the imitator the internal
The body's resistance is significantly less. The stimulating effect of visible
success of work also comes down to reducing internal resistance
niy, etc.

In general, as we see, the matter comes down to the relationship between organized
activities and the resistances to which they are directed. Organi-
the activities involved do not add up without loss, so taken on its own,
“abstractly”, their practical sum is less than it would be with an exact number
their linear addition; 5 poods and 5 poods gave us 9 poods as a result.
But the resistances either don’t add up at all - an eight-pound stone
for one and for two workers the same weight remains, or, if warehouses
are then less perfect than organized activities; you can see it here
on the internal resistances of the body associated with changes in direction
phenomenon of effort: if for everyone, during an independent transition from one
actions to another such resistance is equal to a, then for two together it is not
8 a, because imitation comes onto the scene, and for one of the two, that
who follows the example of another, this value is significantly reduced;
a-- a gives a practical sum, for example, 11/, a ').

So, the organized whole turned out to be truemuch more
simple sum of its parts, but not because it is created from
what new activities, but because his existing activities are connected
with less loss than the resistances opposing them. Our world is
in general a world of differences; only differences in energy voltages appear in
action, only these differences have practical significance. Where it became
nod activity and resistance, a practical sum embodied in
real results, depends on the way of combining both; and for
whole, this amount increases on the side on which the connection is more
harmonious or “harmonious”, contains less “contradictions”. This means
expects higher organization,

An illustration from another area—the symbiosis of suvoika and zoochlorella, one-
a cellular ciliate with a unicellular algae that lives in it.
The first belongs to the simplest animals, consumes oxygen and excretes
releases carbon dioxide; the second is one of the simplest plants, contains green
chlorophyll grains, due to the energy of sunlight, decomposes carbon dioxide,
using it as a material for its tissues, and releases oxygen. So
Thus, a certain proportion of activities, in the material form of one or another
substances lost by one participant in the symbiosis due to unsuitability for him,
acquired directly by another, and vice versa, - therefore, preserved

) This relative variability of resistances is the basis of the curious and important
This is a practical paradox. If A runs away and B pursues him, then, in the event of
equality of their strengths and abilities, the second will inevitably catch up with the first: And it is completely forced
independently choose the path, change direction, react to all obstacles;
Meanwhile, B, to one degree or another, can follow his example, spending accordingly
less energy

Tectology is full of such paradoxes, showing how they do not cover the actual
the validity of formal, abstract concepts, such as mathematical equality, logical
celestial identity, etc. p,
8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

nis located in a symbiotic whole. It is clear that this whole is practically located
lags with a greater amount of activity than if it were. parts existed
separately: an example of an endlessly widespread type of organizational connections.

p,

In the previous one we talked about organized activities and overcoming
their resistances. It is easy to see that these are completely correlative,
concepts, they express the same thing in essence and at every step are replaced
are related to one another. If two armies, two classes fight among themselves, then’
the activities of each side are resistances to the other - business.
only from the point of view of the one who designates, from the point of view of the hunter or
observer who takes him as the center of the observed facts, the efforts of 'this
the hunter is represented by activity, and the efforts of all animals on which
hunts - resistance; but if you put the struggling one in the center of the description
During an animal's life, its efforts embody the activities of its organism.

In this sense, again, there are no fundamental differences in nature,
between living and inanimate, conscious and elemental, etc. Formerly in science
there was a concept of resistance, which is not activity, - about
“inertia”, which characterizes matter. Currently this idea
otzhtsla. Matter with all its inertia appears as the most concentrated
a complex of energies, i.e. namely activities; its atom is a system
closed movements, their speed surpassing all others in nature.
Consequently, the elements of any organization, any complex studied
from an organizational point of view, they come down to ak yam-s0t]leniya.

The very concept of “elements” for organizational science is entirely related to
literal and conditional: these are simply those parts for which, in accordance with the task,
following, it was necessary to decompose its object; they can be anything
big or small, can be divided further or not divided - no limits
analysis cannot be done here. Elements of star systems account for
take giant suns and nebulae, elements of society - enterprisesor individual people, elements of the organism - cells, physical body -
molecules or atoms or electrons, depending on the task;
elements of a theoretical system—ideas, concepts; psychic association—
ideas, volitional impulses, etc. But as soon as during the study
any of these elements will need to be, practically or mentally, decomposed
further, it begins to be considered as a “complex”, i.e. combinations,
connections of any elements of the next order, etc.

Any decomposition into elements, whether actually carried out or only mentally
What there is, of course, is disorganization. This is why it is done so that
reduce the resistance of things to our efforts, practical or cognitive
telial, the efforts by which we then organize the elements into

new, desirable for us, combinations. A disorganized whole like
less than the sum of its parts - this definition follows naturally from the previous one.
future, ;

Regarding the example from the field of cooperation, it was already mentioned that
the total labor force of two employees may be less than the sum of their
individual workforce. This is a case of disorganization: two workers do not
They help and hinder each other. In a certain combination their strengths can
become completely paralyzed—when, for example, they pull one rope in the middle
opposite sides: then the child’s push will set in motion all this
system. If the pulling forces are expressed, let’s say, by 10 and 9 pounds, then

’ practical sum, ‘determining the movement of the system, is equal to t pood

instead of 19.

It should be noted that there is no complete, ideal organization in nature.
happens: it is always mixed with, to one degree or another, disorganization. Yes,
Even the best organized cooperation cannot be free from all
any, at least minimal, internal interference and inconsistencies, it is best

No. 9—10 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. 9

designed machine—from internal friction, etc. Sometimes on one
and the same system actually manages to observe all the transition stages from
highest organizationost to the deepest disorganization, - And this happens,
for example, with a gradually developing quarrel between close colleagues
kami or between spouses.

A native magnet is, as you know, a piece of special ore, magnetic
iron ore - can be significantly strengthened by attaching a frame to it
made of soft ekelez, although it is not a magnet in itself, or rather an active one
the magnetism in it is almost infinitely small. This striking example of “inorganic
Scientific theory explains this “organization” in this way. Particles
Irons themselves are magnets; but in soft iron they are located completely
completely randomly, turned in all possible directions, and their
magnetic actions cancel each other out in this chaos. But when they
fall into a sufficiently strong magnetic field, i.e. into the realm of significant
magnetic action having one specific direction, then they are in
rotate to a greater or lesser extent, “orient” along the line
this attraction, and their own actions no longer partially destroy
each other, and fold: the frame itself becomes actively magnetic in
in general and thus strengthens the main magnet. And this is where it comes down to
to a more perfect combination of activities, in which they intersect
be mutual resistances, but if you add two completely equivalent
straight lines of a magnet with opposite poles together, then their magnetic
actions are mutually paralyzed, the practical sum will be close to zero—
it is a disorganized magnetic system.

An extremely demonstrative and scientifically interesting illustration of the design
the selected relationships are provided by the interference of waves, electrical or
light, air and all sorts of others. Overlapping one on top of the other, they
can strengthen or weaken each other. Let two equal swats
the waves move in such a way that the rise of one coincides exactly with the rise of
it is different, and, therefore, the valley is with the valley too. Then the total strength
the light perceived from them will not be double, & quadruple: 1-|-1 equal-
4. If, on the contrary, the rise of one incompletely merges with. another valley
goy, and vice versa, then light and light together give darkness: 1-E 1 equals zero.
Between these two limits of organization and disorganization lie
all intermediate and among them that ideal-average at which the force
light exactly corresponds to arithmetic; 1--1==2, This is exactly the case
when the rise of one wave coincides half with the rise, half—
with another valley. Here are the relationships between organization and disorganization
mutually balanced, and a neutral combination is obtained.

As we see, only in the equilibrium of opposite tectological
tendencies, the sacred formula of common sense - “twice two is four” condemns
manifests itself in reality itself. This does not prevent her from being closer
absolutely true in most cases, because those who organize and disorganize
processes are constantly intertwined in our experience, but it is precisely the
‘really. It is completely accurate only in the extreme, in the ideal combination; than
The more perfect the methods of research, the more inevitably deviations are discovered.
nia from her; with sufficient accuracy of analysis, no case would turn out to be
strictly corresponding to it. For example, we are used to thinking that the weight of a bag
with potatoes absolutely coincides with the sum of the weight of all the potatoes and the bag;
but for the modern doctrine of electric mvos, as the basis of matter,
equality here too depends on the crudeness of our methods: the weight depends on
mutual position and relative movements of those electrical elements
ments of which atoms are made; and the weight, in addition, from unequal distances
‘nation between individual parts of the entire complex and the center of the Earth, as well as
centers of gravity of other surrounding masses.

Of course, we can say that two people and two other people
always consist of exactly four people, no more and no less. But then
10 N PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 93—10

the fundamental inaccuracy and convention lies in the fact that the really different
and unequal complexes - individual people - are taken as ideally equal
mathematical. units, i.e.; in the designation itselfbut everything is discarded
inequalities and differences. The arbitrariness of this technique will immediately become clear,
if we ask whether two women and two single-celled human
biological embryos that begin to develop inside their organisms,
exactly four people.

Theory is for practice, the account exists for real calculation.
And although, for example, human units are selected for the army relatively
homogeneous in strength and endurance, but their number is very insufficient
accurate, in itself, given for military calculations, even if only approximate
nykh. The experience of the French colonial wars in North Africa showed
that, given equal armament, the average Arab soldier in a clash
one not worse than the average French; but a detachment of 200 French soldiers
is already actually stronger than the Arab squad of 300-400 people; & army
out of 10 thousand French defeats an army of natives of 30-40 thousand people.
European tactics provide a more perfect summation of human b06-
strong forces, and the mathematical calculation is refuted in practice. But as a first step
approximation for practical calculation, it, of course, remains useful and necessary.

In other cases, this first approximation is already sufficient for
ordinary needs of life, or even generally quite accurate. In all
cases where it can be established and applied, its practical organization
The national significance is enormous. This is the vital meaning of mathematics: without it
neither scientific technology nor the entire modern system would be possible
production and market, nor the systematic conduct of modern warfare...

It is easy to see that between mathematics and tectology there is some
a special relationship, some kind of deep kinship. The laws of mathematics are not
relate to one or another area of natural phenomena, like the laws of other specialties
social sciences, but to each and every phenomenon, only taken from their
quantities; it is, in its own way, universal, like tectology.

For a consciousness brought up on specialization, the strongest objection
against the possibility of a universal organizational science there is preciselythis one is hers
universality: is it really permissible for the same laws to be applied?
nyms to combinations of cosmic worlds and biological cells, living people
and ethereal waves, scientific ideas and atoms of energy?... Mathematics gives the solution
a valid and irrefutable answer: yes, this is quite acceptable, because it

‚ already exists in fact - two and two homogeneous individual elements make up the
four such elements, whether they be astronomical systems or images of co-
knowledge, electrons or workers; for numerical schemes, all elements are harmless
personal, there is no room for specificity here,

At the same time, mathematics is not tektology, and the very concept of organization
does not appear in it. If so, what is she?

It is defined as “the science of quantities.” The magnitude is the result
measurements; & measurement means sequential application to measure-
to the object in question of some measure, and, obviously, proceeds from the premise that
that the whole is equal to the sum of its parts. To measure or examine a phenomenon
as a quantity, i.e. mathematically, this means taking it as a whole,
equal to the sum of its parts, like a neutral complex. And we have established that it is
a central complex is one in which those who organize and those who disorganize
processes are mutually balanced.

So, mathematics is simply the tectology of neutral complexes, defined"
a long-established, earlier developed part of the general organizational science.
Until now it has managed without the concepts of organization and disorganization because
that its starting point is combinations in which both are mutual
destroyed, or rather paralyzed.

In all natural sciences, two departments are distinguished: “statics” - the study
about certain forms taken in balance; “dynamics”—study of those
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 17

the same forms in their movement, in their changes, for example, anatomy and histology
The body is its statics, physiology is its dynamics. Static everywhere
developed before the dynamics, and then itself was transformed under its influence.
nim. Between mathematics and tectology, as we see, similar toligature:
one expresses the organizational-statistical point of view, the other - the organizational
nizational-dynamic. This second point of view is also the most general:
equilibrium is always only a special case of motion and, moreover, in essence,
only ideal, the result of completely equal and completely opposite
directed changes.

Of course, mathematics also studies changes in quantities, but without touching
organizational form of the processes to which they relate: this form
is assumed to be static, ‘unchangeable,’ and the result of any such change is
niya—a new value—remains as before a neutral complex equal to
simple sum of its parts. Mathematical analysis also includes those cases
when quantities mutually destroy each other, completely or partially, i.e.
combine in the sense of disorganization, both positive and negative
quantities or as “vectors”; but this is mutual disorganization, after all,
quantities and leading only to new quantities—from neutral complexes
to neutral '), Consequently, this mathematical dynamics is not dynamic
organizational mica does not relate to the transformation of organizational forms.

So, for tectology, the first, basic concepts are the concepts of elements
takh and about their combinations. The elements are activities - resistances
all possible births. Combinations are reduced to three types: complexes of organic
disorganized, disorganized and neutral. They vary in size
the practical sum of their elements, .

V. Frights and demolitions and investigations.

th
+ Organizational science is characterized first and foremost
with its gaping vision, From here follow all the features of its tasks, its methods
and results. The difference with other sciences, in their modern form, is
begins already from the very posing of the question,

There are two important points to be made here:

’ Firstly, any scientific question can be posed and solved with organizational
ational point of view, which the special sciences either do not do; either they do
unsystematically, semi-consciously and only as an exception,

In-2), organizationnational point of view forces us to put forward new scientific
great questions that they are not able to identify and define, much less solve,
current special sciences,

The closest organizational point of view, it would seem, should be
biological and social sciences that deal with organisms and
organizations. However, it is there in a far from conscious form, using
It is carried out inconsistently and unplanned. Therefore, in many cases it is sufficient
ve decisive and clear application to a particular task, so that immediately
there was a new illumination of all previously known facts, & then new ones
conclusions, sometimes profoundly different from previous decisions,

So, for example, the whole huge question of ideologies, i.e. forms of speech,
thinking, law, morality, etc., an issue covering a wide area
social sciences, was usually considered outside the concept of social

1) Positive and negative quantities are symbols of movements directed
exactly the opposite; zectors are symbols of movement directed differently, such as, for example,
sides of the triangle. Walking along one and then the other side of the triangle, we will arrive
a third party will also lead to the same point; this is shown in addition
vectors in such a way that the sum of the two sides of the triangle is equal to the third one,
although numerically, of course, the third party is always less than the sum of the other two. Theory
vectors and the theory of quaternions developed from it provides enormous simplifications in problems
about space, powers, costs, etc.
19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

organization as a whole, the parts of which are connected by necessary life
<ligature. Marxism was the first to definitely clarify this connection, but not completely,
but only partially, one side of it - the dependence of ideology on relationships
production, ‘as secondary forms or derivatives of primary forms. He
left without clarification the objective role of ideology in society, its necessity
my social function; in an organized system each part or
side complements other parts or sides, and in this sense it is necessary
for nthem as an organ of the whole; having a special purpose. In some cases
Marxism approached this task by establishing that this or that ideology
serves the interests of one class or another, consolidates the conditions of its dominance
or is his weapon in the fight against other classes. But he didn't put
question in a general form and for many important cases I took it without criticism
old, pre-scientific formulations, for example, art was considered simple decoration
life sciences, mathematical and natural sciences, non-class, higher
scientific truths - pure, independent of social relations,
The organizational point of view immediately changed these concepts, eliminated them
‘postrotu and vagueness, indicated the actual and necessary place
ideologies in the life of society. These are the organizing forms for all practice.
society or, what is the same, its organizational tools. They really
are determined in their development by the conditions and relations of production, but
not only as their superstructures, but precisely as forms that organize
which content, are determined by this content, are adapted to
him. The whole ideological side of life appears in a new light, and
a number of its mysteries are explained relatively easily 1). .

Private illustration from the same area: the question of origin
animism, i.e. fragmentation of humans and other living beings, and the initial
but also all objects of nature in general into “soul” and “body”. Previous theories
animism did not even touch upon the fact that the connection between the “soul” and the “body” has
quite clear social and organizational character, exactly corresponds
that form of cooperation that I called “authoritarian”:. attitude
active-powerful element and passive-subordinate, leading and executing
nitelsky. Meanwhile, as soon as this side is introduced into the study

“things, a new path to solving the problem is outlined by itself. Animism rendered-

is expressed as an organizational form of labor existence transferred into thinking
people. At the same time, it is possible to fully explain all historical
Chinese destinies of animism: whyhe was not, as is now recognized, in
the very first phases of human life, before the development of authoritarian cooperation
poverty, why it strengthens in some eras of history and weakens in others,
following the growth or decline of this social form, etc. d, ?).

In political economy, many important issues are solved incorrectly
or remain unresolved due to the inability of specialists to become
organizational point of view. A prime example of theory concerning laws
exchange. The dominant school of “ultimate” science in the old official science
usefulness" comes from principles that can be called "anti-
organizational“: it takes as a basis the subjective attitude of the individual
person to his personal needs, the individual psyche with its fluctuations
current assessments of useful things. Meanwhile, the exchange of goods is an expression
organizational connections between people in society as a production system;
and the activity of the individual psyche with its subjective assessments comes down to
in order to adapt a given person with his economy to the objective ones, from him

4) A systematic review of ideologies and their development, from this point of view, is given in my
work “The Science of Social Consciousness” (2nd ed. 191)) Review of the development of material
istic and positive philosophical teachings - “Philosophy of living experience”. About class
art and class science - “Art and the working class”, “Socialism of science” (0be
books of 1918).

2) This theory of animism was first outlined by me in the 2nd edition of the Brief
economics course science" (1899). No objections have yet been raised against it, but
which would be worth stopping,
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 13

ъ
independent conditions of social organization. No subjective assessments
cannot change for an individual even the price of a product that he
is currently on the market, and even more so - the technical conditions of production
production of this product, which are the most constant ‘moment in the formation
price change.

The theory of labor value, on the contrary, proceeds from the concept of social
noahorganization of production and in this sense stands on the organizational
point of view. But she still did not carry it out completely; between
therefore, a complete and formal proof of its correctness is achieved only
with further steps on this path, It consists in exploring whether
what are the conditions for mutual exchange of individual capitalist enterprises
are able to maintain and develop their share of work in the general system of pro-
production. It turns out that it is precisely in the exchange based on the labor norm that
with strictly defined and indirectly dependent deviations ').

An illustration from the field of biology can be the question of the origin
Research Institute of Sleep. There are a number of theories that all strive to clarify the mysterious
means of changing sleep and wakefulness in the body. Very likely
that one of them will turn out to be correct; it is also possible that they are partially correct,
I'll have to admit a few of them. The organizational point of view, in different
to a certain extent, they are characterized, as in general by all serious physiological theories,
riyam. This especially applies to the theory of M. Duval, which explains the phenomena
sleep by amoeboid movements of brain cells: their processes contract and
interrupt communication between nerve centers; and hence the lack of consciousness and
all other sleep symptoms. The same can be said about Klyapared's views, according to
which sleep is a protective function of the body, protecting it from
exhaustion. But even these broadest concepts do not include
one essential aspect of the holistic organizational point of view: in them
there is no concept of the relationship of an organized system to its changing environment.
And as soon as this ‘side is taken into account, it immediately comes to the fore.
something new: the connection between sleep and the astronomical cycle of days and nights
the vast majority of living beings, and with the pH cycle of the year for that part
them, which is subject to hibernation.

The daily and annual cycles mean deep periodic changes
knowledge of the general situation of life on the earth’s surface. The light of the full moon in
six hundred thousand rublesI am weaker than the light of the sun; and meanwhile the sight for the pain
Most animals, and especially for higher animals, are the main means of orientation
in the resistances, opportunities and dangers of the environment. The theme also changes
temperature, humidity, etc. atmospheric conditions. A set of external
conditions for the organism are completely different: a creature adapted to
daytime, has every chance of being unadapted to nighttime, and vice versa;
bilateral complete fitness could appear only rarely
exception. And from here follows also the difference in biological situation
in its entirety - the night and day life of animals and plants, and even more
the unadaptability of each individual organism increases either to day-
nym, or to night conditions of the struggle for existence.

If, for example, human organization has developed in sufficient accordance
given the circumstances of the day, it could not be suitable to the same extent
cabbage soup for the night. So, although his eyes contain a special device for
night vision, nevertheless at night a person sees incomparably worse than
during the day. A deep trace of the nocturnal helplessness of primitive man remains
in the form of an inotonic fear of the dark in our children, usually taking
a spontaneous, convulsive form of “mystical” fear. So helpless

1) In general terms, such a proof was given by me first in the article “Exchange
technology" in the collection "Essays on a realistic worldview" (1st ed. 1908, 2nd 1905).
It is developed in more detail and more accurately in the 4th issue of Volume I of “Political Economy” by A. Vogdanov
and I. Stepanov (first chapters).
E ° PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

many nocturnal animals during the day - just look at the owl or eagle owl
in bright sunlight.

the body needs the most complete isolation from this vital
unfavorable for him, periodically presenting situation - isolation,
of course, also periodic. This is the role of sleep. Immobility reduces to mini-
Mum communication with the environment, a break in impressions frees you from motor
reactions to events in the outside world, withabout all their consequences. From here
astronomical framework of sleep periods: day, night, winter. Migratory birds
achieved a lot of isolation from the winter environment by huge air travel
action; the bear cannot do this, and so he goes to bed. Man
achieves the same with its heating. lairs: in nature in different ways
the same goals are achieved. Thanks to artificial lighting,
a person can partially evade the daily cycle; he's actually sleeping
smaller than most animals. However, in tropical countries for him,
As with many animals, the daily cycle includes another period of hibernation—
afternoon, a time of inability, depending on extreme heat.

This general organizational comparison “organism-environment” allows
therefore, it is fundamental to resolve the question of the origin of sleep; research
knowledge of the sleep mechanism, of course, remains necessary, but receives guidance
driving idea.

In fact, the organizational point of view has been most fully pursued so far
since then, precisely in sciences that do not use the term “organization” itself:
in physico-chemical. It is only designated differently there, namely as “furs”
nic point of view. It examines any system from the outside as a relation:
changes within it between all its parts, and the relationships between it, like
whole, and its environment; those. all external systems. It has already become clear
“mechanisms” are first called those organized systems that are planned
are measuredly arranged by the people themselves—and then all those systems whose structure
rykh managed to be known and made understandable to the same extent as it is known and
the structure of these technically created systems is clear.

However, even in the physical and chemical sciences, it is quite conscious and therefore up to
In the end, consistent application of an organizational idea can provide new
asking questions. So, for example, in modern physics there is great interest
cause controversy about the “principle of relativity”; and its formulation and research
formations are entirely based on the relationships between observers, capturing
vying one or another withexistence, and under signaling conditions that allow
reconcile their observations. It is clear that here the organizational
sense of the concept of the physical environment, elements are introduced into it that were not previously introduced
taken into account, exploring creatures and their relationships 1).

In general, it should be obvious to us that the organizational point
vision is capable of providing a new approach leading to new results
<the most diverse questions of knowledge that have been raised so far.

1) I note that the current formulations of the “principle of relativity”, Einstein and
others seem to me to be imperfect from an organizational point of view. They're making mistakes
There are always only two observers and a light signal between them. Since
direct light signaling is not possible if observers move away from each other
from each other faster than at the speed of light—the signal beam from one cannot then catch up
another, it is recognized that the relative speed of bodies is always less than the speed of light; and
this latter is already the absolute speed limit. Meanwhile, it is worth entering into
system of coordination of the third observer, as an intermediary between the two, and it turns out
already different. During the decay of radioactive bodies, some beta particles, i.e. electrons flying
at a speed close to the speed of light, for example. 985 thousand kilometers per second (taken—
‘300 thousand kiz.). For an observer placed in the middle between two such boats,
particles flying in opposite directions, it should be quite clear that they
They fly away from each other at a speed of 570 thousand kilometers, i.e. faster than the speed of light.
(if on both sides you provide yourself with special observers, then direct signaling
between them, of course, is unthinkable; but through the first, located between them,
they can enter into contact and establish their relationships, including finding out
they are moving away from each other faster than the speed of light.
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 15

you

The organizational point of view also gives rise to questions
which could not be placed separatelyindividual, specialized sciences and
which, however, must be recognized as completely scientific questions. This
precisely those that relate to the unity of organizational methods in the
kind, in all practice and all knowledge.

There are, let's say, such scientific facts. Eyes of a cuttlefish or eight-
legs represent the greatest similarity in structure with the eyes of higher animals
nocturnal, for example, a person. Both are devices of enormous complexity, with
hundreds of millions of elements, highly differentiated and harmoniously connected -
different from each other, However, it can be considered undeniable that both are different
curled completely independently, on two widely diverged branches of the general
gical tree of life; the common ancestors of man and the octopus could not have
eyes in our sense of the word—at most, pigment spots on the outside
nom layer of the body, for enhanced absorption of rays. Independence of origin
This is, as it were, specially emphasized by the fact that the layers of perception
The light-receiving retinas are located in higher mollusks in the reverse order
nom to the arrangement of layers homogeneous with them in higher vertebrates. This—
one of the most wonderful coincidences in nature.

Can biology, as a special science, pose and decide. question
about the reasons for such a coincidence, and such a degree of coincidence? There is a common
the proposition that similar functions lead to the development of similar organiza-
new But the concept of “analogy” says nothing about the possibility of such a time-
significant coincidence; “similar”, for example, the horny outer skin of a human
century, chitinous shell of an insect, calcareous shell of a mollusk, etc.
Biology can trace two lines of historical development, series of transitions
Dov, leading from a simple accumulation of pigment in independent ways to
architecturally identical optical devices, millions of times more
more complex than our microscopes and telescopes; but the very isolation of both
lines excludes the possibility of an answer regarding the reasons for the coincidence of their pre-
effective results.

Viology actually did not pose the question in such a form.yes, although
More than sixty years have passed since Vabukhin's research on
through the eyes of cephalopods. But from an organizational point of view it should be
delivered This is a special case of the question of the unity of organizational methods
dov in nature. And its scientific solution must be achieved on the basis
analysis and generalization of organizational experience. .

physical and chemical sciences there is a “law of equilibrium”, formula-
roved by Le Chatelier. He says that systems that are in
shared equilibrium, show a tendency to maintain it, exert
internal resistance to the forces that change it. For example, let in a vessel
water and ice are in equilibrium at 0°C and normal atmospheric pressure
spheres. If the vessel is heated, then part of the ice will melt, absorbing heat and
thus maintaining the same temperature of the mixture. If you increase
relieve external pressure, then part of the ice again turns into water,
occupying less volume, which weakens the increasing pressure. Others
Liquids, unlike water, do not increase in size when frozen.
volume, but decrease; they are under the same mixture conditions, with increasing
pressure, show a reverse change; some of the liquid freezes; pressure,
obviously weakened by this as in the previous case. To dissolve
frames, chemical reactions, body movements, the Lo-Chatelier principle is applied
at every step, allowing us to anticipate systemic
changes.

But the same law, as many observations show, applies to
biological, mental, social systems that are in balance.
For example, the human body responds to external cooling by increasing

^
16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

internal oxidative and other processes that produce its heat;
to warming up—by increasing evaporation processes that take away heat
raft, Normal psyche, when due to external conditions there is a decrease in
the amount of sensations changes, for example, when a person goes to prison, how-
would compensate for this shortcoming by enhancing the work of the phantomAsia, as well as developing
attention to detail; on the contrary, when you are overloaded with impressions, you will overwhelm
attention directed to particulars weakens the activity of fantasy, etc.

It is clear that the question of the universality of Le Chatelier’s law cannot be resolved.
any of the special sciences, physics,
chemistry has nothing to do with mental systems, biology has nothing to do with inorganic systems, psycho-
logy—to the material. But from a general organizational point of view, the question is,
Obviously, not only is it entirely possible, but completely inevitable.

Usually such questions are called “philosophical”. In this title
two ideas are hidden. The first is precisely that these questions are not subject to
conducting specialized sciences; she is quite correct. The second one is that
these questions are of a strictly scientific nature and are not fully investigated
scientific methods, & some special, “philosophical” ones. She must be
rejected.

1.

Thus, the organizational perspective, applied consciously and holistically,
leads, on the one hand, to a changed formulation of questions in the special sciences,
on the other hand, to new scientific questions that go beyond these
Sci. What methods should be used to study both?

Using general scientific methods, which were developed mainly in
natural science. They are essentially the same for all sciences, and vary
are found only in particular applications; the further the sciences of psycho-
logical and’ social, still relatively backward and less precise.
scientific, especially since their methods are closer to the methods of natural science. Therefore,
Without prejudging future developments, it should be accepted that organizational science
should proceed from these general methods, striving for the most rigorous and
their exact application, changing the techniques and methods of this application according to
to the extent that the need becomes clear.

Induction leading from particular facts to generalizations more and more
wide up to universal, represents three main forms:
general-descriptive, statistical and abstract-analytical. All of them
applicable, of coursedirectly, and to the phenomena of organization and disorganization.

As for general descriptions, it can be noted in advance that they
in organizational science should be distinguished by their attraction to “abstraction”
to a much greater extent than generalizations of special sciences. Description of the organization
zalion facts strives to cover the relationships of all possible elements, &
it means to be distracted from all elements; description, performed by a special
sciences, always means certain specific elements, and
can't get his mind off them. For example, even the broadest of these sciences, physics
chemistry, studies the relationships of “bodies” or “physical things”; her descriptions
always characterize these “bodies” or “things”, their connections and combinations; but they
do not concern at all, for example, ideas in human hesychix, or
ideas in human society, with their connections and combinations. Tectology
constantly sets itself the task of moving beyond these boundaries; and generalization only then
framed in its sense when it equally expresses connections or combinations
both bodies and representations, ideas, etc. Before tectology, as before mathematics
tics, its previously developed part, all phenomena are equal, all elements are
are different. T@ few generalizations of experience from which mathematics proceeds,
universally general, but also maximally abstract. Tectology organized-
of new and disorganized complexes will have to develop, of course, much more
more generalizations than the “tectology of neutral combinations”, i.e. math-
teak, but of the same type. The path to their development is the longest and most difficult,
inevitably representing a series of stages at which a generalization is associated
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 17

also with certain elements, as in special sciences; the difference is
that the goal was set in advance to eliminate this limitation, to find such a form-
a layout that would be suitable for all other elements:

The statistical method includes, as is known, quantitative accounting of the fact
then he underscored their repeatability. Quantitative accounting is clearly implied
in the very definition of "organization"low level" and "disorganization": only then
when it is produced, one can tell whether the whole is practically
more or less in some specific respect than simple
the sum of its parts, and by how much. Calculating how often they repeat
certain combinations, here must play a role, presumably, the main
Thus, at the lower stages of research, while it has not yet gone beyond the limits
groups of private, specific facts. It would be strange and hardly advisable
count differently the frequency, for example, of a centralist form of organization in
the structure of inorganic systems, living beings and isycheic complexes,
social, ideological groups, etc. However, rough estimates,
in the sense of the special frequency or rarity of certain combinations, may
and Foot have their own meaning.

The highest levels of research are achieved by the method of abstract analysis.
tic. He establishes the basic laws of phenomena, expressing their constants.
new trends. The means for this is “abstraction,” i.e. distraction
correction, removal of complicating issues; it reveals in its pure form
the basis of these phenomena, that is, precisely that constant tendency that
hidden beneath their apparent complexity. Abbott work is performed sometimes
real, as happens in the exact “experiments” of the natural sciences; sometimes
but only ideally, that is, mentally, than ‘in the vast majority of cases
forced to limit themselves to social sciences. For example, when physicists research
they tried to convert mechanical movement into heat, they tried with the help
special devices to eliminate any losses of the resulting heat for pre-
matters of precise control and any random influx of it from the outside; or, what is equivalent,
but in addition, they sought to establish a complete balance of such losses and
such an influx. In this way they reproduced the phenomenon “in its pure form”,
that is, they really simplified it, freeing it from complicating aspects, made
its basis accessible to observation—in a scientific, non-metaphysical sense,
of course, and ‘found its pattern:a certain amount of mechanical
physical movement turns into a definite, strictly proportional to it,
amount of heat

In the same way, chemists, searching for the laws of compounds between substances,
they are trying to obtain the substances under study in their pure form, in fact “distractions”
from them all sorts of impurities through various processes of decomposition or “analysis”;
and then, causing reactions between these “abstracted” substances,
systematically eliminate or neutralize all side effects that darken
the basis of the phenomenon, moments, for example, the escape of the formed gaseous products
from the field of observation, etc. The example of chemistry makes it especially clear why
the abstract method is also called “analytical”: its essence is
it is expected’. in decomposition, in the analysis of complex objects and complex conditions,
and in operating with simplified objects and simplified conditions, like
analysis results.

It is easy to see that, for example, astronomers are in a different position than
physicists or chemists. Watching the intricate movements of some planet
or comets in the firmament, they are deprived of the opportunity to really analyze
to begin this movement, to actually simplify it, to eliminate such complicating
conditions, like, say, the movement of the Earth itself with its observatories, like
perturbations from the attraction of various other cosmic bodies, as unequal
measured refraction of rays in the atmosphere, etc. However, without simplifying
It is impossible to study abstraction and abstraction with any precision here either;
it is carried out, but not in a real experiment, but mentally. One for
others, additional moments are eliminated in calculations and calculations until

2

Nroleter culture. No. 9-10.
18 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

the basis of what is being studied will not remain - the orbit of a planet or comet in relation to
to the center of the system, for us usually the Sun. The very beginning of the newest astro-
nomni lies in the mighty effort of the abotraging thought of Nicolaus Copernicus,
who found the main complicating point of the apparent motion of planets in
movement of the Earth itself and managed to “distract” him by ideally placing the observation
body on the Sun. Ethis was the first step of astronomical abstraction;
then it was easier to find and eliminate other problems by analysis.
observable astronomical facts.

In the social sciences, with the colossal complexity of their subject matter, re-
A simple simplifying experiment is possible only in exceptional cases.
cases so far. Therefore, here too, the decisive role belongs to the mental
abstraction, examples of which were first given by bourgeois classical economics
mia, and then, in a much more perfect and substantiated form - research
Marx's words *). I

In what form should the abstract method be used by the organizational
science? The answer is given by the facts. The fact is that although this science is still formally
did not exist, but organizational experiments already exist,

The experiments of Quincke and especially Büchli on “artificial cells” are well known.
kami." They were prepared by preparing colloidal mixtures, in their own way
physical, but not chemical structure similar to living protoplasm;
and in them it was possible to reproduce the most important motor reactions of one-
cellular organisms: movement through protruding pseudopods,
like amoebas; capture and envelopment of solid particles, copulation,
etc. To what field of science should these experiments be classified? Towards biology?
But its subject is living bodies, vital phenomena that are not here. To physics
colloidal bodies? But the whole meaning and purpose of the experiments lie outside the tasks: things are going on
about new illumination, a new interpretation of the processes of life. Leno, what experiments
these belong to that science, the tasks and contents of which cover one
temporarily both, - the science of the general structure of living and nonliving things in the world
kind, about the basics of organizing all forms. Before us is an experiment in which
rum from vital functions is “distracted” from just what we are used to
consider “life” itself, everything specific and particular in it, and remains
only its general structure, the basis of its organization.

The ancient Plateau experiment, by rotating a liquid ball in a balanced
weighing medium (another liquid of the same specific gravity), reproducing
drives a carmud of Saturn's rings. Again, what scientific field is this from? Neither
hydromechanics and cosmogony cannot full right to appropriate
this experience relating to questions of the basic architecture of the world. He, according to
society and completely belongs to organizational science.

The same can be said about the experiments of Myers, who found out the possible, equally
the weight of electrons in an atom through an electromagnet and floating small
any magnets or currents,

These illustrations show the main feature of the use of abstract
method in tectology, in experiments, for example, Büchli, or following the same
the paths of the experiments of Rumbler, Guerrera, Leduc, Lehmann and others, from life
the phenomenon is actually distracted by its “biological” material; but then you need @more
mentally distract yourself from the material on which the experiment is reproduced
ditoya. Real abstraction must be complemented by mental abstraction,

Even more often, of course, tectology will be forced. be limited
one mental abstraction.

These are the inductive paths that organizational science must take,
develop your own generalizations and laws. Then the role of deduction begins,
which applies and combines these obtained results to obtain
new theoretical and also practical conclusions. You can pre-

1) More elementary and partly more detailed explanations about the three phases of inductives"
A number of methods are given in the literature. savings" by A. Bogdanova and I, Stepanova, t, C p. 5—M
(2nd ed.) and in “The Science of Societies, Consciousness” by A, Bogdanova, pp. 19-51 (2nd ed.),

No. 9--10.- PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 19

see that this role will be huge. Neutral in mathematics and lectures"
combinations—it is so overwhelmingly great that it completely obscured
most experienced thinkers, vol.-6. the inductive basis of this science. B
tectology of orthanized and disorganized complexes such fundamentals
should be much wider: a “neutral” connection, i.e. balance of organ-
degrading and disorganizing moments are still only a special case, and
moreover, an extremely simplified case, extremely easytea grandfather-
tion. In general toktology, therefore, the relationship between induction and deduction
can't be that uneven. As a universal science, it should
to fully and most harmoniously combine general scientific
methods.

C, The relationship of tectology to the private sciences and philosophy,

As it was found out, questions of special sciences can be posed from
general organizational point of view, i.e. "tectologically". This point of view
always wider and therefore capable, at least in some, and maybe
be, and in all cases lead to results that are more complete or more
exact, The experience of all sciences shows that the solution of particular problems is usually
is achieved only when they are first converted into generalized
forms; and at the same time, together with the originally stated mass, the mass is solved
other similar issues. So, if someone set their task -
whose to find out the distance from the Earth to the Moon and limited himself to this framework,
he would never come to anything; but the solution to a more general problem is how
find the distance of an object without approaching it—gave an immediate path to the solution
both this particular problem and countless others. Basic knowledge
The understanding of tectology is in the most general formulation of questions.

From here it is easy to establish the relationship between tectology and special
sciences: unifying and controlling. All their material and everything they obtained
the results legally belong to her as the basis of her work; all their generalizations
and the conclusions are subject to verification in terms of their accuracy and completeness,
Somehow the relative narrowness of the point may affect one and the other
vision.

The methods of all sciences for tectology are only ways of organizing mathematics.
rial delivered by experience; and she explores them in this sense, like everyone else
possible methods of practice. Her own methods are not exclusive
theories: for her they are exactly the same subject of research, also organizational
new techniques, nothing more. The so-called “gnosvology”, or philosophical
theory of knowledge, which seeks to explore the conditions and methods of cognition
vaniya not likelife and organizational process among others, and
abstractly, as a process essentially different from practice, tectolo-
gia, of course, rejects it, recognizing it as fruitless scholasticism,

Tectology should not be confused with philosophy. Philosophy at its own
at its inception was simply a collection of what was then not yet separated by
specialties of scientific knowledge associated with naive generalizing hypo-
theses. In the era of specialization of sciences, it is a superstructure over the scientific
knowledge expressing the desire of human thought for unity. But she
the less she could achieve it in reality, because she herself disintegrated, accordingly
the main gap in social life, into theoretical and practical
branches. Both are fundamentally different from tectology,

Practical philosophy refers to general moral guidance
people's behavior. For tectology, morality is only a subject of study,
as an “organizational form” among others; moral ties of people she fra-
looks from the same point of view as the connections between the cells of the body, the parts of the ma-
buses, electrons in an atom, etc. She is as alien to morality as she is to mathematics.
matika.

Theoretical philosophy sought to find the unity of experience, and it was precisely
in the form of some kind of universal oblenenil. She wanted to give a picture

from

20 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 9-10

world, harmoniously integral and understandable in everything. Her tendency is to contemplate
body For tectology, the unity of experience is not “found”, but is created, actively
organizational way: “philosophers wanted to explain the world,” but the essence of the matter was
“is to change it,” said the great predecessor of the organiza-
nization science, Karl Marx *). Explanation of organizational forms and. me-
tods tectology is directed not to contemplation of their unity, but to practical
mastering them.

Philosophical ideas differ from scientific ones in that they are not subject to experimental
verification; for example, a “philosophical experiment” is completely unnatural
combination of concepts. For tectology, constant checking of its conclusions for
experience required: organizational lawsare needed primarily for
to apply them; and tectological experiments are not only possible
are important, but, as we have seen, they already exist. Here the fundamental difference is especially
clear. ;

In its unifying work, philosophy more than once anticipated the broad
some scientific generalizations; the most striking example is the idea of ​​the indestructibility of matter
and energy. In this sense, philosophy is also the forerunner of tektology. Such
philosophical concepts such as dialectics or Spencer's doctrine of evolution
tions, have a hidden and unconscious, but undoubted tectological character-
character Since they will be researched, tested and organizationally
interpreted, they will enter into a new science, & at the same time lose their fi-
losophical character. In general, as tectology develops, it should
make philosophy superfluous and from the very beginning stands above it, connecting
with its universality, scientific and practical nature. Philosophical ideas
and schemes for tectology are a subject of study, like any other organizations
tion forms of experience.

Tectology is a universal natural science. It is still in its infancy;
but since the entire organizational experience of mankind belongs to it, then
development must become rapidly, revolutionary, like itself

revolutionary in nature.
A. Bogdanov.

C. Darwin and K. Marx °).
(Eve of the Sixties, 1859).

I had to point out earlier that our “renaissance era”
niya“ - the sixties coincided with a period of absolutely exceptional
the rise of natural science in Western Europe and were under its beneficial
influence 3). Later I had the opportunity to dwell in more detail on completely
exceptional significance in the history of science on the eve of the sixties, this
1859, which attracted attention due to the coincidence of two great discoveries
the one in the field of theory—Darwinism, the other in the field of experimental
new method - spectroscopy 4). The pope's centennial anniversary of these two events was
was noted in a timely manner by the entire scientific world, but neither by me nor, if I am mistaken,
no one else noticed the coincidencetion, giving this year another
wider meaning. Guided by the well-known rule: “better late,”
than ever,” I will now try, after the expiration of the new ten-year period, to replenish
this gap.

1) One of his 11 theses on Feuerbach.

3) The editors place the father of K. A. Timiryazev, a member of the Socialist Academy,
as an interesting attempt to bring the two together. completely different areas of knowledge, natural
knowledge and economics, and they have a single organizational principle, what is the task in
field of science and stands before the proletariat.

3) See the article “The Awakening of Natural Science in the Third Quarter of the 19th Century” in
Stories. Russia in the 20th century, ed., partnership br. TGrayaat,

® See, “The Year of Results and Commemorations,” “Bulletin of Europe,” 1910.
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 21

In 1859, not only Darwin's Origin of Species appeared, but
and “Iig KNYK 4eg PoNzsvey Oekopopie” by Marx 1). This is not a simple
nological coincidence; between these two works related
to areas of human thought so distant from one another, one can
find similar features that justify their comparison, at least in the form
this short essay. Both the final page of Darwin’s book and the sub-
The concise, brilliant fifth page of the preface of Marx's book represents
the results of their main course, striking in their clarity and brevity
ideas, How the first was the culmination of more than twenty years of activity
Darwin, and the second was, by Marx’s own admission, “a guide-
“a new thread” for his subsequent more than twenty years of activity,
interrupted only by his death, while his mental powers were still in full bloom.
Let us dwell on a quick parallel between these two works, which left
a deep trace in the history of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth century, -
Of course, they will leave it in subsequent centuries.

Darwin was said to be “the greatest revolutionary in modern times.”
science, or rather, in the science of all times" (Watson), that "it was gratifying to see
as if from the calm of his modestyth working room in Dzun he brought the minds
all thinking people into such a movement, ‘for which there is hardly a second
example in history" (Rayleigh). About that revolutionary movement, which, based on
from a wretched little closet in Dean Street (London), not only “consciousness”,
BUT and the “being” of all humanity, it is unnecessary to extend into the experienced
a moment that history has undoubtedly never seen before.

What was the common similarity between these two revolutions?
simultaneously appeared in 1859? First of all, that all
a set of phenomena relating in the first case to the entire organic world,
& in the second social life of man, and which theology and metaphysics
considered their exclusive destiny, to be removed from their jurisdiction and found for
of all these phenomena the explanation lies “in their material conditions,
stated with the precision of natural sciences“*).

‚ Like Darwin, who doubted the suitability of the biblical doctrine of creation,
research of organic forms, to which it was somehow adapted theologically,
or motaphysically minded contemporary science, found the real
explanation for the origin of these forms in the “material conditions” of their
emergence, and Marx, as he himself explained, doubted Hegel’s
metaphysical “philosophy of law”, came to a “guiding guide” that served him
thread" in all his subsequent activities to the conclusion that "legal relations
and forms of statehood ‘are inexplicable neither from themselves nor from the so-called
of the human spirit, but take the basis from material conditions
life." Both teachings are marked by the common feature of seeking the initial source

1) As for me, this gap can be explained very simply. To my shame, I
I must admit that with the contents of the wonderful preface to this book, I realized
compiled after 1909 from an article by V. I. Ilyin (Lenin) in the XNUMXth volume of the Encyclopedia
br. Pomegranate. To console myself, I can say that, on the other hand, I have become acquainted with “Capital”,
one of the first in Russia. It was so long ago that Vladimir Ilyich was not yet bornwas,
in Plekhenova, whom many of our Marxists consider their teacher, there was only
ten years. In the autumn of 1867, I was passing from Simbirsk, where I was conducting experiments on. plan
D.I. Mendeleev, I stopped by P. in Ilyenkovo, at the recently opened Petrine Academy.
I found P. A. Ilyenkov in his office-library at his desk; in front of him
there was a thick, fresh German volume with a cutting knife still in it;
this was the first volume of Marx's Capital. Since it came out at the end of 1867,
then, obviously, this was one of the first specimens to fall into Russian hands, Pavel
Antonovich immediately, with admiration and his characteristic skill, read to me almost the whole
a lecture about what you have already read; with the previous activity of Marx, he
was familiar, since he spent 1848 abroad, mainly in Paris, in © active
he was personally acquainted with the pioneers of Russian capitalism - the sugar makers and could illustrate
demonstrate this activity both to people he personally knows and with examples. Thus, after a few
weeks after the appearance of Capital, a professor of chemistry at the recently opened Petrovskaya Akad.
demy, was already one of the first disseminators of Marx’s ideas in Russia.

*) „g Kimk eg RoYzsVey OeKopopie“. $. Uh,
22 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

explanations exclusively in “scientifically studied”, “material” phenomena,
which Marx definitely expressed in the designation of all his scientific
directions with the words: “Economic materialism” and “Economic
attention to history“, the method of production of material life determines
that “real basis” on which “all legal entities” rise “like superstructures”
dic, political, religious, artistic, philosophical, expressive
to put it briefly, “ideological forms.” But “at certain stages of its
development, these material productive forces of society’ enter into
confrontation with pre-existing relations of production"
and these last forms of development of the productive forces turn into their
shackles. 'When the era of social revolution begins. From thisoh change eco-
nomic foundation collapses and its entire enormous superstructure." I continue
these quotes from classical aphorisms of Marx up to the word revolution, because
that the controversy most often revolves around him about the relationship of Darwin's teachings to
the teachings of Marx. They say Darwinism is the doctrine of evolution, and evolution is like
would be the direct opposite of revolution. In Darwin the word revolution is not found
expected and probably because in biology this spruce caused even fresher
recollection of Voyo1aopz Chi s1oBe Clovier, by which was meant the fictitious
cataclysms known by geologists, which supposedly occurred with the speed of some
theatrical pure change of scenery and accompanied by the disappearance
entire populations of the earth and the creation of new ones, But the only inherited
advanced qualities of his father, Darwin's son, George, a famous astro-
noma, - we encounter a detailed development of thought about scientific, homological
connection (& not a simple rhetorical analogy only) between the concepts of re-
revolution, both in the sphere of political phenomena and in the sphere of cosmic phenomena
skiy and simply mechanical 1),

In their explanations, both Darwin and Marx proceeded from factual
teachings of the present, but the first, mainly to explain the dark pro-
past of the entire organic world, Marx, mainly, to predict
the future, based on the “trend”?) of the present, and not only predictions,
but also influence on him, since, in his words, “philosophers are engaged in
that everyone explains the world in their own way, the point is how to change it.”
But here, too, a reservation should be made - to point out that Darwin, giving not “his own”
philosophical, but based on the study of reality explanation, forced
people to pay attention to the process of creating new organic
forms (artificial selection), which. they used it half-consciously,
helped bring him to the amazing results to which he was brought,
for example, Burbank 3) - this modern worker-miracle worker, creator
new organic forms.

Main source matereal factors that determine the historical
ical development of mankind, Marx recognizes the economic, all
the rest is an “ideological superstructure”. The main factor in the development
tion of organic forms Darwin recognizes the historical process, metaphorically
which he called “natural selection” (Elimination by Auguste Comte) and derived
repentant from the law of overpopulation, usually called the law of Mal-
party. This, as is known, was reproached by Darwin by the Chernyshevskys and especially
Dühring, but those who brought this accusation obviously did not know or forgot
that Malthus himself borrowed his law from naturalists who had already applied it
earlier to plants and animals (Linnaeus, Franklin). But what is the

1) See my article “Cambridge and Darwin”. I add that, developing this idea about scientific
new regularity of the phenomenon of revolution - a thought, of course, that did not count on sympathy
bourgeois English audience, George Darwin deliberately made a reservation: “a man
who bears the name of Darwin, when expressing a judgment about evolution, must be aware of all

® the responsibility that he takes upon himself”, *

3) E. Verishtein is in vain mocking this ‘expression of Marx,

3) For information about Burbank’s activities, see my translation of Garwood’s book. Renewed earth, and
the word Verbank in the encyclopedia br. Pomegranate. }
№910 ° PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 23

Is this a phenomenon of natural selection? In the adaptation of organisms to conditions
their existence; in it, as Darwin explains on the very first pages of his
books, lies the key to understanding the organic world, an explanation of its foundations
no riddles. This word “adaptation” has become the slogan of modern biology;
it became clear to the biologist only what was added, because he
its historical origin became clear. Haeckel, master
to compose new names for this entire area of biology that studies
phenomenon of adaptation, proposed a new name—okolosia. This word
lucky especially in America, where, for example, next to plant physiology
a new science has been established around 1). But this word comes from the same
Greek root, like economy, economics. Instead of inventing
new words, wouldn’t it be better to keep the old one, indicating ‘total
similarity of concepts. Therefore, several years ago I suggested
This part of botany can simply be called plant economics *). Thus also
In Darwin and Marx we encounter complete similarity of initial factors
the historical processes they study, which manifest themselves even in full
waiting for their verbal designation. And here and there we meet with economic
using the conditions of one’s existence.

But the similarities don't stop there; it extends to nearby
These are the products of this economic process. According to Marx, at the very first
stages of development of human activity, during his transition from an animal,
expressed itself in the invention of tools of production: “the production of working tools
diy... specifically characterizes the human labor process... that's why
Franklin defines a person as: & 100! also appia|, i.e. like an animal
manufacturing working tools" 3). K. Kautokiy, passing on this message
Marx, uses the properties of the German language for a successful game
words; animals can Yn@ep (find) tools in nature, and only humans
knows how to e’Piep (discover, invent). Rutherford in one of his
last speeches very clearly depicted these first steps of human
ingenuity: it came down to the consistent concentration of that
the same amount of energy in the smallest space, the club fell on
more or less significant surface, an ax or knife has already limited
single line action and finally a spear. or an arrow concentrated it in
one point.

But what was the process of adaptation of animals and plants to
conditions of their existence, if not in the production of organs, i.e. guns? 4) And here
again a simple verbal rapprochement makes this obvious. In the old days,
back at the beginning of the twentieth century, Russian scientific organisms, organized bodies on-
bodies were called "tools"". Towards an explanation of why living beings are
tool bodies - organisms, according to Darwin, the main task was
a naturalist who wanted to explain their origin. Already in the first
In the sketch of his theory that has come down to us, he says: “We must look at
every complex mechanism or instinct, as in the long story of Ali, the result
useful devices, similar to works of art“ 5). Therefore
basis for Darwin's explanation of the origin of organic forms and Mark-

*) Drude, the author of one of the newest German manuals on ecology, is still going
further and proposes for the general environment, as the habitat of a plant, the term of the same Greek
word production ecumen, understanding by it the entirety of the material environment,
and available energy sources,

3) See my brochure “Main features of the history of the development of biology in the twentieth century.”
1908. These departments of botany should consider the attempt of some scientists to be completely unsuccessful
th of zoology to be called “biology”, “biological”, and the reader does not know about which
We are talking about real biology, i.e. the totality of botany and zoology, or about part
its parts,

3) K. Marx. “Capital” Tom T, Russian. translation 1898, p. 184,

#) Marco also points to this ("Capital", Russian translation, 1898, chapter of HIT, p. 325.
note $4),

®) Pagush ‘Te (opa opz OG Ve ori OG zrestez. 1842, the manuscript was found and published only
in 1909.
24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, ` No. 9-10

Som forms of human society are the economic conditions of existence
vaniya, & one of the first products of this activity is the production
guns But does this direction of activity accurately characterize only
the first steps of primitive man? “We do not encounter the same phenomenon
at the highest levels of this activity? Bacon in which Marche and Engels
see the first harbinger of the worldview that formed the basis of their
“historical materialism” 1), Bacon, this “messenger” (Biststabok), announcing-
the coming of the “kingdom of man” to the world, i.e. kingdom of science and victory
catcher nhell by nature, this is how he characterized the contemporary trend of de-
'activity of the emerging new experimental science: “Mes tapiz pifa pes pmeNesiiz
81 regiizziz write ua1eb; shzygaten 8 her aihI IZ gez_ regyseig.”—“Bare hand
and the mind, left to itself, does a lot. don’t stand, work is done with tools
and other manuals“, And not only from the beginning of modern science,
and during the period of its full development in the twentieth century we encounter the same
I think. The famous physicist Wiener in his remarkable speech: “Expansion
areas of our sensory perceptions 2) indicates that the greatest successes
physicists are closely connected with the amazing improvement of instruments,
representing only a kind of imitation of the senses, these, aptly
in the expression of I.P. Pavlov, “analyzers” of the external world. Finally, hardly
did not express the same thought with greater relief with his characteristic
Boltzmann's wit, speaking about Kirchhoff as the inventor of the spectroscope: “he
made a completely new organ out of the eye” 3). Thus, it is interesting
whether we are concerned with the origin of the entire organic world, or the human
society, at its core we encounter the economic process of production,
whether the initial production of organic matter by the plant,
or the crown of human activity—the production of knowledge—science, one of the first
questions comes down to studying the origin of organs or instruments of this
production. This is the analogy between historical materialism and Darwinian
nism in the area where their objects are completely different: in one, human
century, another - the world of animals and plants. But there is also a part of Darwinism,
where their object of study is the same, Twelve years after the appearance
“On the Origin of Species” and “/ig KISH” came out “The Origin of Man”
Darwin, Not limiting himself to the biological side of the issue, Darwin moved
and on sociological grounds, since consideration of it was necessary
to prove the origin of man from the animal type—and in two
remarkable chapters answered that all mental and moral superiorityanimal cruelty (the entire ideological superstructure, as Marx would put it)
originates in two material features—in the development of the highest region
nervous system, in the brain, and its result—the development of mental
abilities and in the development of the “social instinct”, inherent in higher
animals. Thus, the social instinct, the public, and he,
like Marx, is the original beginning of the natural-historical process
the process of development of the mental and moral character of humanity, Not for nothing
many English and German writers consider Darwin the founder of modern science
realistic school of ethics. Development of our parallels between Darwinism
and Marxism in this regard would require more space than may be
allocated here 4) and would go beyond the limits of 1859, which is actually discussed here
we are talking about

These are some of the similarities in the basic ideas of these two great
works, the appearance of which coincided so surprisingly and, therefore,
excludes any possibility of direct influence. But it is
pros: these two great men, who lived for more than twenty years in such

1) Ka Magkz ipa Kmedmov Etsoe1$ “O1e VeShee Kapi\e”, pp. 201-204.

1) See my book “Urgent tasks of modern natural science”,

3) See my article: “The Year of Results and Commemorations”, (1859),

® It would be interesting to touch upon her relationship to what appeared in the interval
in 1864, “Utilitarianism” by D. S. Mill,
No. 9—10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 25

close proximity (one hour away), did they come to
direct communication? We have the testimony of Marx's son-in-law on this matter—
Aveling. He categorically declares that Marx is a phenomenal reader,
probably, due to his erudition, who had no one like himself, carefully scrutinized
studied all the works of Darwin, and when the first volume of Capital came out (the second
third edition in 1873), sent it to Darwin, who replied as follows:
letter: “Thank you for the honor shown to me by sending
your great work “Capital”. With all my heart I wishI wish there was more
a thorough understanding of deep and important issues of social economy
would make me more worthy of this gift, Although the areas of our research
things are so far from each other, I am still convinced that we are both equally
strive to spread knowledge, and this knowledge will ultimately serve
the benefit of humanity. Your respectful and devoted Charles Darwin,
I end this short note with where I started. Celebrating what was missed

in due time, the anniversary of 1859 and the significance of the coming decade—those
the sixties, which, in fairness, can be called a decade
Darwin and Marx 1),

Let us dwell on the fact that both of them walked under the banner of natural sciences. Both
in natural science they saw the only solid basis for their revolutionary
teachings designed to shake both “consciousness” and “being” to the very depths
of all humanity. Isn’t it clear that it is precisely in science, in natural science, and not
in mystical and metaphysical eruptions, not in meaningless fu-
tourist attempts or calls to return to the path of “free class”
“Chesical eroticism,” not in all these relics of the shamefully dying bourgeois
culture must lay the foundation for the culture of production that will replace it.
Lotharokaya—cultures of the future. This was predicted back in 1881 by Auguste Comte,
saying that of all classes the proletariat is most capable of understanding and perceiving
understand the mental revolution that positive philosophy brings with it
sophia—philosophy of science °),

K. Timiryazev.

Knowledge in the light of history.

Man is the most perfect being in the world, but he is still part of it
peace. His life takes place in a struggle with the elements of the universe; in this stubborn
through struggle he subjugates the universe, learns the laws of its development; cognizes—
in other words, organizes the data of experience, leads them to a harmonious unity
to a harmoniously integral system. The material of knowledge is unlimited,
it is vast, like the universe itself, and there is no limit to human knowledge. But
in its striving for unity, for monism, knowledge is always limited
degree of development withtheir tools: forms of thinking developed in the depths of
capitalist social environment and, naturally, reflecting it, give
scattered knowledge, excluding harmonious organization, and only
a new social system, socialism, will create conditions under which
the monistic tendency of knowledge will be able to unfold to the end,

K. Kautsky in his work, “Ethics and materialistic understanding”
history" wrote: "if changes in society were able to transform

,

1) Darwin, “The Origin of Species,” 1859. “The Descent of Man,” 1871. Marx.
“Critique of Political Economy”, 1859 “Kalgital”, 1st edition. 1867 2nd—1878

2) O. Sopme. RiYozorshe rose ye. T. UG, r. 518, One of the surest means for the first
the rapprochement between the proletariat and science O. Comte considered popularization, and he
refers to own experience; for twelve years he read free popular
lectures on astronomy to Parisian workers, being persecuted for this by his
bosses, This involuntarily brings to mind I.M. Sechenov, who also read besilat-
new popular physiology courses for Moscow workers, while these lectures are being given
he was forbidden by the royal zealots of public education.

26 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: No. 9-10

the human body, his arms, legs, brain, then they can even more and faster
change his consciousness, his views,”

In this article we will try to ‘outline a general scheme for the development of cognitive
tions, its most important stages, to give the working class the opportunity to orient
focus on issues of reorganization of science on new beginnings.

At the first stages of his life, a person is not much different from his
animal ancestors. True, the ability to speak distinguishes a person from everything
the rest of the animal world, but, as Archbishop Whatley notes, “man is not
the only animal that uses its tongue to express
to reap what is going on in his head, and which is capable of more or less reducing
mother of thoughts expressed by others." And C. Darwin wrote that “man is distinguished
doesn't care about anythingliving animals is not that he is able to distinguish articulate
sounds, for dogs, as everyone knows, understand many words. and sentences
nia. In this respect, they are at the same stage of development as children in
ages 10 to 12 months who understand some words and short
sentences, but they themselves are not able to utter a single word.”

Oh my joy; Animals express anxiety, fear and anger by screaming. Screaming
interjections, as etymology defines, expresses one’s feelings and first
He is an ordinary person - he does not yet have articulate speech.

Over time, due to the complexity of the labor process, I require
mutual adaptation of employees, individual instinctive cries
begin to form into speech. Community of work, mutual assistance in work
create the need for ‘a new instrument of social relations in speech,
If animals can use sign language in their method of communication,
i.e. facial expressions, the language of touch and the language of individual sounds, then with separation
labor, with the organization of work and distribution of products alone there is little connection
There were no longer enough sounds. “Division of labor,” wrote K. Kautsky,—
“impossible without the presence of speech, which must express not only sensational
nia, but also to designate objects and facts; it can only develop it in
to the extent that speech has been developed, and, in turn, brings with it
the need for one."

At the beginning the speech consists exclusively. from words meaning the most dey.
event. These words are a combination of sounds escaping from
human chest during a particular labor act, such as the sound “uh”.
When the workers in the chorus to “Dubinushka” utter the words: “oh, let’s whoop,” the syllable
“wow” exactly coincides with the moment when the
a dull “uh” sound when moving the weight forward. This is easy to notice and
for other jobs. Or from the combination of sounds of the noise that is accompanied by
driven by a natural phenomenon or labor process. These are German words;
“Court”, “Cayenne”, “KITseti”, Russians - clap, stomp, clang, click.From words denoting action (words denoting definition)
a divided object, a thing without which the corresponding
ceremonial act,

This process is perfectly explained by Lazarus Geiger in his work
"The Origin of Language". He writes: “if you ask yourself the question why light
and color were objects without a name at the ‘first stages of speech, but there was
name for ‘the action of applying paint, then the answer we will find is that
a person first gave names to his actions or the actions of others like himself
when for such sublime things as light and darkness, shine and lightning,
he did not yet have concepts,” which at the beginning are reduced to a very narrow circle
human actions. That is why different concepts about objects, surrounding
who live us, and natural phenomena arise ‘from observations of human
activities that cause them to appear. Grant-Allen, as if pro-
L. Geiger’s due thought, argues: “the name of colors increases as
development of methods and techniques for the production of paints. For the purposes of technology, not for purposes
Descriptions of nature are primarily served by the names of colors. Keli to man
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 27

manages to apply paint, then the name of this paint will easily take on the character
adjective."

Later, and again under the influence of the development of economic life and development
division of labor, speech becomes more and more complex.

Although the animal has abstract concepts to a certain extent,
as Charles Darwin proved in his work “The Descent of Man,” but it
lives by visual representations; dependence of the animal’s will, its behavior
kov, from one reason or another - is immediate and obvious. These nasty ones
representations and folk motifs, which also determine, in a still strong sense,
penalize the will of primitive man, in the late period of development speech is replaced by
abstract, abstract concepts and impulses that are remembered,
emerge from the accumulated treasures of experience that were ‘available’
before a person began to act at a given moment,

Even later, when societylife is already becoming quite complicated,
speech from a tool of simple practical communication between people facing
‘among themselves in the process of labor, turns into an organ of thinking,

At first, of course, there was no systematic thinking. Openings
permanent ideas and ideas were associated with those labor acts or
moments of life to which they related. Further thinking
increases quantitatively. Striving to know what is essential and necessary,
it is according to one principle or another, in close connection with. development of production
society and exchange, checks the experience of an individual person, selects from it and
systematizes what helps organize social life and in general
contributes in the struggle for existence; this becomes universally significant,
universally binding. This is how the experience of an individual person is processed into experience.
social, public. b

At the same time, forms of thinking and a simple idea, goals are outlined.
com reflecting the economic side of life. In an authoritarian community
the organizer of all economic and administrative life is the elder
great in the family, patriarch, He concentrates all experience in himself, With increasing
the size of the community and the development of the division of labor, the patriarch is increasingly
further moves away from ordinary people - the executors of his will. During this period in
ideologies, ideas about the veneration of ancestors, about re-
the village of souls, about the immortality of souls, about God as the creator and organizer of life
universe. At the same time, forms and methods of thinking are emerging. By type:
the organizer and the performer are established, for example, the categories of cause
and consequences. The patriarch orders, the executor acts. Acts at-
rank, immediately after it there is an action-consequence,

® To talk about individual branches of knowledge, especially in a systematic way
There are no bathrooms in the first stages of human life. Everyone is watching
ideas and impressions, all experience during this period are combined into release knowledge,
a unique form of knowledge, clearly reflecting all the diversity of disparate
much experience of that time.

Whenin parallel with the division of labor, the
the production of means of production becomes more complicated, humanity is forced
part of the experience that does not fit into the framework of religious knowledge is formalized
to be considered as simple, non-religious-sacred, & “secular” knowledge,

After the authoritarian community had been eliminated, when significant
a significant amount of experience and it was necessary to systematize it according to
or another principle, the rudiments of certain branches of knowledge and
independent sciences, at first completely isolated and even different
excluding each other, This has not disappeared even in our time. This process. we
can be traced to some extent in the history of ancient Greek philo-
Sofia The Greeks tried to consider philosophy as the foundation of all
sciences, as the science of universally binding values. They strived in philosophy
unite the disparate, create a connection and spread it without counting ©
the boundaries of any individual disciplines; but already in Plato’s Apology,
25 PROLETARIAN CULTURE No. 9-10

the great Hellenic sage, it is correctly and thoughtfully indicated,
that, starting to solve the problem of universally binding knowledge, she came up with
to ignorance. Mathematics and astronomy are studied in Plato's school. About
Aristotle organized entire schools in which individual sciences developed
by learning, they achieve the greatest independence. The main ideas of teleology
chemical structure and evolution, methods of description, division and method of comparison
telny brought in this. school to create descriptive and disjunctive
natural sciences, as well as to the education of politics and the study of art,
However, the connection between the individual sciences quickly broke down; individual sciences
gradually but firmly master all reality. This process and
in our age has not yet reached its completion, Roman-Stoic philosophy,
represented by its representatives Cicero and Seneca, considers philosophy as
“teacher of life, inventor of laws, promoter of virtue-
teli“—in a word, as a legislatorlife. However, the intended task is not
Roman philosophy was also able to accomplish this. Philosophy, in connection with
economic decline in the level of medieval society, falls into
submission to religion. So, Oron as the founder of all sciences,
was unable to complete its task. And this, of course, is not an accident. She's not-
set the goal correctly; its role, on the contrary, is to unite scientific’ knowledge,
Philosophy does not define the principles of science, but only generalizes them, reduces them to
unity, to monism, which task can be achieved in the near future
future working class. A distinctive feature of Greek philosophy,
and indeed all bourgeois philosophy, is dualism, antithetical
the emergence of thinking as a special spiritual guiding principle, truly
ness, being. This dualism reflected the division of humanity into classes
and the nature of commodity production, which was not understood at that time. Characterizing
commodity + production society, F, Engels wrote: “as soon as production
The parents stopped consuming their product themselves and exchanged it, they
lost power over him. no longer knew what his future would be
fate, and it became possible that the product turned against the producers,
was a means of their exploitation and oppression. Product dominates now
over the producers." This is a contradiction of existence. and was reflected in thinking, in
its bifurcation, dualism,

When a person understands the labor process, he will consciously regulate
to control him, then the chains that fetter his thinking will fall off, and there will be
the unity of being and consciousness is restored. Development of capitalist economics
the growth of the natural sciences, which today has become
triumphal procession. First we learned the laws of nature, and then we learned
subjugated the forces of nature so that, with less labor, satisfied
create your needs. But before natural science could turn
into the all-conquering science, a number of generations of natural scientists, especially
in Germany, were essentially simple collectors, herbarists,black-
workers collecting material from which subsequent generations
built a majestic temple to exact science, precise thinking, displacing
our metaphysics; in the same way, individual sciences of our era, firmly
based on natural science, a product of capitalism, are essentially
only material for higher science, Iroletarian science. If capitalist
The agricultural economy managed to overcome the forms of crude authoritarian, religious
thinking, the socialist system will be able to lead to unity then diversity
the world of sciences in which we live.

Capitalist science is characterized by eclecticism, fragmentation
ity, lack of unity. Like a child of her age, she inherited
him all its signs. Production of material goods in capitalist
the system qualifies as anarchic. The entrepreneur produces, but
he is unable to take into account what and how much is required in the market.
An entrepreneur often does not even understand his dependence on the market and,
when launching his enterprise, he does not take into account that another, more powerful
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 29.

national industrial giant is already killing a new enterprise with its
birth or turns into its appendage; we observe this during the period of
colors of trusts and syndicates. This process is fully reflected in cognition.
A mass of large and small sciences are emerging that compete with each other,
unite, dissolve one into another, etc.

From primitive communism, through the authoritarian community, commodity-
capitalist economy, we are moving towards socialism. From primitive religion
religious knowledge, through philosophy, as the founder of all sciences, as a law-
giver of life, through natural science, which is still far from united by a single
principle, we enter the period of monistic knowledge,

Already now, since the professional intelligentsia represented by their
technicians, engineers, mechanics, etc., coming into contact in the workshops of factories and
factories with production, merges with it, elements of the new science begin
loom. But that's just slackold plant, pale, grown without
lights ready to fade away; and only in the future, when the proletariat will be able
combine both the organizer and the performer when the barricade collapses
between labor and self-interest, the tree of unified knowledge will blossom. Now
people of different professional backgrounds understand each other little, sometimes
They don't understand at all. The profession separates people spiritually; then this abnormal
smallness will disappear, the unified method of the sciences and the monism of forms of knowledge will give ‘possibility’
in general, it is not possible for a specialist to correctly approach this or that
Gom question. Now the individual sciences have distributed the kingdom among themselves
validity, and each of them develops a special part, just like
how the entrepreneurs distributed production among themselves. In my work
they become isolated and, independently developing their methods, diverge further and
further, Socialism will socialize the kingdom of disparate production, in the future
In the end, philosophy will unite the kingdom of individual sciences and turn into theory
knowledge, into the theory of theories not in the Kantian sense of epistemology, but as
actively guiding knowledge theory with practical application in
life, “If the subject of philosophy is thus the totality of sign-
science, then, naturally, it also includes the relationship of individual sciences to each other,
their internal order, according to which each new science follows from the previous one
flowing and erects the building of the facts included in its field.” Classical expression
The proponent of this point of view in the natural sciences is Helmholtz. We
We extend this point of view to science without exception.

Is there any real basis for such statements?

Everything confirms that these grounds exist. Previously, every subject was about
was exhausted depending on the direct efforts of the employee. Now, with
gigantic process of development of machine production, the role of the worker is all
more and more comes down to the role of a manager and supervisor over individual
giants, initially over each individual, and then over the whole
system of them, closely connected in the production processprocess. From before
performer, the proletarian becomes a performer-organizer in the future
more - an organizer. When will public economy allow us to introduce
automatic machines that almost entirely control the progress of production, like
our floating torpedoes, which are controlled with mathematical
precision of one's move under water, the function of the performer will merge with the function
organizer An engineer, a technician, a mechanic and a worker will be the same type - the difference is
between them will not be in quality, but only in degree. One is smaller, the other
will be able to cover more of the production process. This monistic tendency
‚in production, reflected in ideology, it will undoubtedly have to be developed
destroy the old dualism of thinking, the laws of abstract authoritarian thinking.

Present philosophy as a science that embraces all individual sciences,
Encyclopedists also tried - Bacon, d'Alembert, Cohn and others. But such
a philosophical encyclopedia can only be created by an international pro-
Tariat, prepared for this by all social development. By this, however, we
We don’t want to say that future socialist science will destroy special
‘30 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

knowledge. No, it will only change their character, uniting the individual ones.
industry. All. sciences are the organizational tools of a single social
labor process. They will have to develop a system of general techniques,
laws governing private laws. Homogeneity in the field of cognition
will increase as it increases in production,

First of all and finally will be reworked in the light of collective
static monism, social sciences, as sciences that study the laws of organic
nization of people, then others, up to the so-called “pure”
sciences that at first glance have no relation to social life. New
the form of knowledge and science will be more complex; every higher form is more complex than the lower,
But for a man of work and struggle, science, as a tool for organizing labor
process, will be closer and more understandable than “pure” knowledge of things infinitely

far from us,
Valerian Polyansny.

The growth of Proletkult.

“Proletkult is some kind of word,” someone wrote in “Novaya Zhizn”
just a year ago, During this year this strange word has grown into a big and
a significant word, without causing surprise, without recommendation it appears
on the columns of metropolitan and provincial newspapers, Not a single congress about the people
education in all its forms, not a single serious article about culture will
Well, its new tasks and paths cannot be discussed without this word. His ho-
All literate, reading Russia knows well, and sometimes even illiterate people know
welcomes this new word, strives for it, fights for it. Some are excessive
increase its significance, others still look at it incredulously
word, but everyone takes it into account, everyone recognizes that during the year of the revolution, proletkult
got stronger, managed to say his new word and managed to say it so loudly
and it is clear that all of Russia heard him. She heard and spoke. Not only
in proletkult magazines but also in newspaper articles one can no longer hear the timid °
and the confirmed speech of the disciple, but the firm and convinced word of the people, many
and thinking intently about this issue. And Ukraine among the worries and
The struggle has already raised the question of proletarian culture. From Kremenchug
write: “And the peoples are all proletarians, because the culture of the proletarians is poor.”

.‚Young Proletkult. Tilka looks at his life. And you are growing. Yaku
kazzi. Not in days, but in years." Here’s to this ‘proletkult growth, rapid,
“Yak kazzi” is something every worker should take a closer look at and think seriously about
over whether this growth is excessive, whether it causes
some vagueness and uncertainty of the features of Proletkult will not hurt
whether it is the correctness and flexibility of his further movements. I think
that the question of the growth of proletkult can only be raised in connection with the reasons
which caused ‘this increased growth and the significance that proletkult
can and should have in Russia's future life, and maybe more than one
only Russia.

The growth of ‘proletkult’ is revealed first of all inline with which
he walks across Russia from end to end. Only a year ago he barely irritated
huddled in the capital and the most respectable and enlightened doubted his existence.
the oldest newspaper of that time. Having barely gained a foothold in the capitals, he transferred
siley to industrial centers, provincial and district cities, captured
a whole series of towns, the existence of which was never known before,
Nowadays, many proletkults are being put forward by the villages. They grow up
not only without help, but most often without instructions and even without any communication
with the center. In some volosts of the Vitebsk province there are “homemade”
proletcults. They organized themselves without any charters, instructions, or approvals.
established provisions, under the influence of the population’s strong reluctance to sign-
viyu. Even if it were possible to discern some part in this phenomenon

No. 9-10 ‚ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 31

passion for a ‘fashionable word’, then it cannot be completely explained by this, Moreover
Well, every fashion is fraught with more meaning than it might seem at first
new look, and fashion; put forward by the revolution, requires the most attentive
relationship with myself, And it seems to me that I will not be mistaken if I say that these volosts
new prolescults, formless and helpless, tell us that, perhaps,
hostile distrust that exists among the working masses towards the old
lordly science and culture. Here, first of all, is the consciousness that they cannot defeat her
and she can’t remember the darkness that is now so painfully felt
dark mass. And when the volosts next to the department of public education created
Dalot Proletkults, 10 they hope that in the organizations put forward by the pro-
letariat, they will find something closer, more suited to their needs in the future.
greater moment than public education in general, When the work of out-of-school
department will grow and become stronger in due measure, and when everything or. at least know
the vast majority of out-of-school students will understand what to do and how to do it
do, then this attraction of the village to proletkults will disappear, and the latter
will disappear as imperceptibly as it appeared,

But in heightthere is another side to Proletkult, which reflects more seriously
currently at his work. This is its composition both in the sense of workers and in the sense of the environment,
in which he works. In both respects, the situation is not quite the same.
safely. According to the resolution of the Congress of the All-Russian Council “proletkult
should directly include only the cultural vanguard of the prodetariat,
industrial, and at the same time its elements, the most advanced and conscious
culturally." In reality this is far from the case. “In Sormovo,” we read
we - the Proletcult Council was re-elected. It included, in addition to representatives
workers' organizations, representatives from student organizations, Nizhny Novgorod
native State University, teachers.” As a consolation I must say,
that such prolotcults quickly disintegrated, since the diversity of composition was greatly
is evident from the very first steps of his activity. From Orel they write: “In the village
A proletkult was organized in Brasov at the end of 1918, but there was no work,
There are petty quarrels, squabbles, and intrigues between members of the proletkult. Home
the reason for the failures, apparently, is explained by the presence in the proletkult of local
of the intelligentsia, which requires special attention and honor. Under-
The question of her expulsion from among the members of the Proletkult has been raised.” Thus, in
in cases where deviations in the composition of proletkult workers are very massacres,
the case is quickly liquidated, but in most cases in the council the proletcult
and in all its organizations we meet the intelligentsia standing close
to the workers and living peacefully with them, And yet her presence is essential
significantly affects the nature of the work. Of course, it was difficult to expect
so that the young workers' organization is distinguished by the purity of its remains. Them
what is more difficult is that this organization grew up in the context of the proletarian revolution
lution, when the whole country was divided into two warring camps. Terms
life and the spirit of the times pushes nearby intermediate layers into workers
organizations and even older and more established ones are constantly forced
clear your ranks from elements of doubtloyal and alien. When will it pass
acute combat moment, the tensions lying
now exclusively on the proletariat, the workers have liberated a significant part
the forces that have been working will undoubtedly be given over to cultural construction, and then the composition
the proletkult and its physiognomy will change in the sense we desire,
We must add; that in proletarian universities and studios the composition of the audience is
tel is constantly improving, and if some of them. now it’s still impossible to
call strictly proletarians, then the predominance of workers is quite pronounced
strongly. In the wolf case, here we are dealing with an obvious drawback,
‘against which a constant struggle is being waged and significant gains have already been achieved
successes,
The situation is much more complex and serious, with the very nature of the work
proletkult and all its features. “Development of proletarian culture” -
This is the goal that the proletkult set for itself at its very inception,
32 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

These three words contain a huge, complex idea. Its very development
and figuring it out requires long, serious work. Lack of clarity
and the elaboration of the idea of proletarian culture, difficult, abnormal conditions
viiya, in which work took place from the very beginning and a number of large
and small reasons prevented proletkult from sufficiently concentrating
your work, give it a certain outline and limit it from working
extracurricular department, party, military commissariat and other organizations,
those in contact with it, Meanwhile, such certainty of activity and
clarity of proletkult’s tasks is a necessary condition not only for
productiveness of his work, but also in order for his participation in the further construction
government of the country was significant and significant. Ideological closeness
letkult with the party and the extracurricular department goes without saying, but often
Proletcults, especially young ones, do not take on their own work. In Kryukov
(near Kremenchug) resolution adopted at the proletkult conference,
calls for systematic help to the Soviet governmentmobilize and promote
win through cultural and educational organizations to strengthen here and in
village of the idea of Soviet power." In the Pechenezh volost, Kharkov province.
Proletkult conducts, apparently, exclusively agitation and propaganda
work. Since these phenomena are associated with an acute shortage of workers
or the danger of the moment being experienced, there is no need to fight them. But
this forced work should not obscure those big tasks that
The gaze and thought of the proletkult must constantly be turned to these. The closest
the proximity of proletkult to the moment being experienced, its immediate participation in
further construction of the country is obvious, but he can and should do all this
to do in pursuit of his specific tasks peculiar to him alone,
If the proletkult often changes its physiognomy and turns into
party, then to the extracurricular department, then he, without providing significant assistance either
extracurricular department, nor the party, will soon lose itself.

What part of the party’s work can and should Proletkult take on?
himself and what is his role in the further revolutionary construction of the country?
Isn’t its significance and role weakened by the fact that all power in the country
is in the hands of the very proletariat that put forward the proletkult
and therefore all the work of building a new life and culture will be
be carried out in that direction and imbued with that spirit, the development and development
which is the main task of proletkult? I think that's all
these favorable conditions only enhance the importance of proletkult and help
tells him to better find out his face,

If he manages to quickly get on the right path and sufficiently
deploy his forces, then, leaving aside his ultimate goal, he must
along the way, play a significant role in the very course of the revolution.

The exceptional hardships, hardships and shame of the past created the need
cadres of conscious and persistent fighters who selflessly give their strength
revolution. In hard labor, in exile, in prisons and exile, many of them, although
and dearat a price, managed to accumulate the necessary knowledge. And when the intelligence
Gention, brought forward by hard labor, prison and exile, came face to face
with a certified intelligentsia, then the whole world saw on whose side and
strength, and thought, and knowledge. After the first whirlwind of the revolution, Russian intelligence
Gentia stood exhausted, faded, wrinkled. When it smooths out
the forehead, the gaze will brighten, the thought will become stronger, it’s hard to say now. Revolution
has put forward and continues to nominate many heroes and fighters. But already this
hour it is acutely felt that in addition to fighters and heroes, we need cultural,
educated workers, and the need for them is increasing every day. But they are not there
and there is nowhere to take it from. The state university will not give them to us anytime soon. Uni-
The People's University cannot give them. Meanwhile, there will be many more years to come
perhaps decades of work, struggle and sacrifice. We need a source from
draw strength prepared, suitable and reliable. 'What sources do
We are not here now. And every serious, far-sighted worker must work on this ^
No. 9—0 PROLETARIAN CULTURE 33

think hard. But besides this task, RI V and urgent, before
There is another revolution, no less serious. Battle moment of the revolution
will end. A long period of transition to peaceful
life. And this transition period will, perhaps, be no less serious and dangerous.
September of the revolution itself. It will require prolonged exertion of all forces. It is necessary
remember that centurion bans and other emergency measures caused by the revolution
lution, will disappear much earlier than in the thinking and psyche of the intelligentsia,
peasantry and intermediate layers, the corresponding necessary
my revolution. Now the consciousness of the masses is quickly becoming clearer and stronger, but this
is done beyond our conscious efforts. This is the result of propaganda
action, as Bakunin said. While the revolution is going on, people are led by
turning to the unforgettable sufferings and horrors of the past, and they are bolder
are given to everything new. But the revolution will end, there will be ‘enough bread and
sugar, people will calm down, lazytsyasya, impulses become heavier, movements converge
indecisive and lethargic. The forms will begin to solidify, crush and interfere with the distance
your work. It is necessary to forge a new weapon, create new ways of
effects on the life and psyche of the masses. This can be done most successfully
only in a separate work organization.

But this is not enough. There is one more task ahead. We need to create and
develop a new type of worker who would have all those exceptional
bodily virtues that distinguished the best revolutionaries of the past,
marry him with sufficient knowledge and better adapt him to peaceful life.
She created conscious, persistent and indestructible revolutionaries before
not only the party, but the entire system of Russian life, ugly, wild, barbarous
Varsky But there is no old system, & some
thinning its ranks. Thus, the question of creating works is raised
nickname of a new type, which would combine hardening, devotion
cause, perseverance and readiness to fight, which distinguishes a revolutionary, with business
wealth, sufficient scientific training and all other advantages,
which distinguish a peaceful worker. To create the corresponding work -
The child will need special education, long-term training,
assembled environment. If we were not afraid of unpleasant and terrible comparisons,
then one could refer to noble lyceums and other special institutions
Denia, where people were brought up from strata close to the government,
especially those who are loyal and reliable to him. And, of course, hatred of lyceums will not stop
invites us to admit that they were of great importance for this system and that
Responsible and dedicated workers were educated and trained there.
And their role was not limited to this only. They occupied a significant place
in the entire cultural life of the country.

These, in general terms, are the main tasks facing the proletarian
volume in connection with the revolution, They are great, complex and responsible. Proletkult
I want to significantly strengthen and take shape in order to begin their
youfilling.

But besides these special tasks, the proletkult still faces serious
participation in the general cultural and educational work of the country. We think
that his joint work with the extracurricular department is not only not
parallelism and unnecessary waste of energy, but with correct and expedient
new production should bring the greatest economy and productivity to
the latter's work.

about in the near future the most backward and ignorant working people
Mayes took up the task of solving and implementing the most complex tasks set by
presented to humanity, we need knowledge and knowledge that is not superficial,
Well-fed, secure and calm environment for a long period
life has hitherto been a necessary condition for the accumulation of knowledge.
The working masses should not perceive them in warm and calm cubicles.
sweating, but in an atmosphere of struggle and hardship. Oama science has grown and developed
and has until now served a different system, hostile to us. This imposed a known

Nroletarskal culture, No. 9-10, E
34 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

stamp on the character of science. A whole range of issues, familiar and pressing in the new
life, have remained undeveloped or have been poorly developed so far,
and along with this, not only individual issues were put forward, but also entire industries
sciences that were developed with the greatest care, but which
turn out to be superfluous in the further progress of humanity, Even such a person
age-loving and simple-minded (in the sense of politics) science, like medicine, knows
changes in currents, when some questions are obscured, others unexpectedly come to the fore
are eliminated when new methods are created that better meet the needs of the data.
new life and work environment. Here's why. Proletkult believes that in the most
science must undergo profound changes. Must be reassembled
its most precious elements are connected, illuminated and presented differently.
The Commissariat of Enlightenment will now begin to tackle this task decisively and without
mediocre cannot. His unsuccessful struggle against the spirit of the old universities
sites, which met with oppositionie from the first steps, when it came to
reforms of the most innocent and indisputable, serves as eloquent proof of this
betrayal. But besides all the facts, it is clear that the Commissariat is now not
cope with all the tasks raised by the Proletcult. Among the workers
kov, which the Commissariat has at its disposal, there are ideological and conscientious
people, but they are a small minority. Mainly there
ordinary intellectuals work. If it is absent from it (and even then not completely)
the treacherous and malicious part of it, the dull indifference, the philistine
indifference in all its forms, under the most varied covers, still
won't disappear soon. Under such conditions it is difficult to hope that the Commissariat
in the near future put forward a sufficient number of inquisitive and courageous
passionate seekers of new ways of future culture. But in addition to the composition of the workforce,
Now the commissariat faces a number of difficult obstacles to solve
upcoming tasks. The diversity of the environment in which he works, the cumbersome
apparatus, enormous responsibility for every wrong step—all this
conditions that are far from conducive to bold searches for new methods and
rapid changes in the way work is done. Moreover, the very immensity of the
bots interfere with careful observation and accurate recording. In the life of a commissioner.
Sariat will come a long period when, for reasons of the most reasonable
smart and correct people will have to direct all their efforts to strengthening, and not
to search. Meanwhile, we will face a number of leaps in the regions. more than once
working, not lit. The venerable old culture does not like to jump,
and the Commissariat, burdened with numerous peoples, is also forced
will do everything with caution. Here's to all this most serious and responsible
the most important work, urgent work, requires specially adapted
conditions, a special atmosphere and a well-chosen, homogeneous composition
workers. Proletcult workers are not like that now. And there is intelligence
Ligence is often not of a high type. But here its presence is obvious and,
sure, temporaryth drawback, but in the Commissariat this is still an inevitable condition
work.

But in addition to tasks related to the revolution and general cultural work
countries, the proletkult also has its own special tasks that are not
must go beyond the boundaries of the class it serves. This is important
a thorough, rigorous, and precise study of the way of thinking and the characteristics of
chemical structure of the industrial proletariat. I'll start with an example. Several
months ago in a sanatorium I had to encounter a young worker
chim, smart and gifted. If we talk about formal education, then it
was illiterate, since he could not write a simple address without difficulty
misunderstandings and mistakes. But he read, perceived well, and thought a lot. By
those issues on which he managed to read at least a few books,
It was not easy to argue with him. People with university education and even
not stupid people often had to retreat in embarrassment. He was a revolutionary
The officer is honest and ardent. Once in a conversation he told me that, of course,
ready at any moment to give his life for the revolution, but in giving it,
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 35

he would like to believe that he will be born again someday, and that this second ‘his
He will devote his life to science. I didn't have the slightest reason to doubt
believe in the sincerity of his words, but I was surprised that within a few
months of our life together in the sanatorium it was not noticeable that he
I read a lot, worked, studied, True, the living conditions in the sanatorium are not conducive
are prone to mental work, but judging by his youth, the amount of accumulated
knowledge and the conditions in which he lived, his ability to work was
readable. I had to turn to him for clarification. He replied that
he acquired and accumulated knowledge at night after working at the factory during the day,
that for mental labor he needs preliminary physical labor,
that only in this case the activities give him satisfaction and joy. Absent
the loss of physical labor causes him to be sluggish in thinking, he has poor perception
doesn't care, activities irritate himyut. After a day's work in the factory, his thought
acquires special sharpness and strength, he easily perceives and assimilates the pro-
Read, every phrase seems more concise and brighter to him. When he told me
about the sleepless nights he spent reading books, about the great happiness that
Roy books were delivered to him, about the freshness and clarity with which each
the thought he read was imprinted on his brain; It seemed to me that he was in. few
hours devoted to mental work, showed tension and pro-
productive thinking bordering on genius. I don't think so
it was insulting to the geniuses. It seems to me that in the life of every average person...
centuries there are moments when he shows some genius, geniuses
these moments are only more frequent and longer lasting. But
that's not the point, I just want to say that such moments when a person
reveals extreme tension and productivity of thinking, having seen
I think they are more often visited by representatives of the advanced layer of the working class.
Comrade Bogdanov in his article about the proletarian university says,
what a strong imprint it left on his scientific and philosophical work
his first meeting and joint work with developed workers. In one or
of another degree for every socialist intellectual, the first and uncompromising
This meeting with class-conscious workers was bound to leave a significant
trace in his further thinking. This is the serious influence that determines
long trail that the advanced layers of the working class have so far left
on individual representatives of the intelligentsia, should in the future significantly
influence the entire cultural life of the country in a significant way. In order to
this happened to a sufficient extent, it is necessary for this influence to be conscious
and systematically. This is only possible when the ways of thinking and 000-
the mental benefits of the industrial worker will be sufficiently
identified, illuminated and studied. This is one of the most serious challenges facing
before the proletkult,

Extremely favorable conditions are needed so that proletkult can
enoughface up to the most serious challenges facing them.
But the mere fact that he was able to put forward and clarify a whole series of problems I
issues is his significant merit.”

Rainin.

0 trends of proletarian culture °).
A. Proletarian culture is all in the future.

Russian literature is very rich in theoretical research about the origin
Tara culture. A good dozen writers devoted their best energies to this
tempting and intriguing topic. And despite the fact that some of them are married
Such a schematist as A. A. Bogdanov approached this issue. with

1) The article is published in a discursive manner,
h*
36 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

laboratory caution, yet the Russian constructions exude the spirit of
wasteful philosophy, helplessly bookish and alien to experiment. A. V. Lu-
Nacharsky gave these schemes inspired wings, but still
“Eastern” conservatism of Bogdanov. A group of writers led by Potresov
revealed energetic skepticism, but ended there,

All presented theoretical attempts are characterized by the fact that
they are ideological, that they approach a complex psychological problem
with crude deductiveness borrowed from political propaganda
brochures.

In the field of economic literature we have such a monumental
value, like Hilferding's "financial capital", in machine technology
“We have Taylor, a new science of our days has been created - psychotechnics, and for
building a system of proletarian culture turned out to be quite elementary
new theory of class struggle and the theory of armed uprising...

In order to feel such a subtle thing as the proletarian
culture, it is no longer enough to be a writer, a lawyer, a politician—you have to be
a kind of engineer, you need to be an experienced social constructor and
derive their scientific methods not from general premises about the development of production
body forces, from the finest molecular analysis of the new production,
whose child is the modern proletariat.

And ve Russian modern industrial realityb with retarded
the Katsap industry can open the eyes of a proletarian psychologist. Metal
purgy of the new world, automobile and airplane factories of America and
Europe and, finally, the military industry of the entire globe
world - these are the new gigantic laboratories where psychology is being created, where
the culture of the proletariat is fabricated. I. will we experience an era of super-
imperialism or world socialism - the structure of the new industry according to
essentially will be the same. And it's safe to say that now,
these days, in the era of war and revolution, the contours of the new industry have not yet
have finally decided; the industry is still developing. And psycho-
logical deposits of this industry in the minds of those working in it
Tariat will come when the new industry and the way of life that has grown on its basis
will become commonplace. For now we can only take into account those scattered psi-
chological formations that are expected among workers of new production
water drain In general, the entire complex of proletarian culture is in the future.

B. Worker-industrial types.
In modern socio-political literature, it is extremely simplified
The treatment of such concepts as the working class has changed. Is it in consciousness?
terators are one continuous mass that demonstrates its new psychic
chology in the class struggle. Meanwhile, if in the old industry the feeling
there was a division of the working class into skilled and unskilled workers,
then in the new industry there are definitely established workers and professionals
sional types, delimited from each other, and at the same time connected
with each other by a common production design.
It is extremely difficult to probe and identify existing working types.
They cannot in any way be determined or characterized “by eye.” Even
direct participant in production, be it an engineer or an administrator
or a worker, can reach these definitions only through a large theoretical
technical and organizational-experimental work. Unfortunately not
only in Russian, but also in Western European, even in Americanoh lite-
There are no corresponding instructions or work in place. Even so grown-
The recent Toylor literature provides only a general administration
vistrative scheme of new scientific industrial enterprises and not
I try to imagine the types of industrial workers.
For our purpose we have to turn to other sources. Such
sources, as strange as this may seem at first glance,
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 87

are working tariffs developed on an industrial scale so far
only in one country—Russia.

In order to include a specific plan in the tariff work, it was necessary to select
peel away the general “group” and “category” definitions of workers. And in
in the minds of workers of trade unions and some of the engineers
certain characteristics of the workers developed. Unfortunately, the tariff
the work, despite all its organizational solidity, has not yet given an accurate
new, complete reports. \

The writer of these lines, one of the tariff workers in Russia, decided to
tariff design to introduce that scientific quality that is at least partly appropriate
there was a general scientific character of the new industry 1). It was possible to do this
only within the walls of an enterprise, factory, etc. real work we are here and
Let's demonstrate some of the results obtained by such a purely experimental method, and in
at the same time and deductively, data.

But before making the planned demonstrations, it is necessary to accept,
as an axiom that the proletariat of the metalworking industry and
especially one that works in mechanical production, this is just
that proletariat which, before others, gets acquainted with and perceives the new
production system and is the most advanced proletarian group.

Let us demonstrate first of all the class of machine workers—a series of chip-
separation works. These are machine workers, workers of the new machine
production. The table presented here shows the qualifications of the main
types and main professions. (Om. table No. T.)

Type T are artist-turners who not only have an excellent command of
latheth machine-tool, but they are in the very course of the turning work process
how it is mounted *). This is the type of turner that fills the
structural workshops: tool shops, assembly shops, repair shops, etc.
The qualifications of all other professions can be thought of in the same way as turners.
this series.

“Tic P—machine workers—is characterized by the fact that they, without names
subtle artistic method, depending on the subjective qualities of the artist
botnik, move freely from machine to machine and can work original
new things. If type [ can be called a sophisticated, modern offspring

craftsmanship, then type P, this is a kind of working engineering. Ting
th provides a huge number of people known as installers,
customizers, designers. This is a contingent of genuine organizers
production, .

Type Ш is the most promising type in this type - complete tor-
the cruelty of modern machinism.

Mass work, devoid of any subjective stamp,
one piercing method, the cutter and gear method, that’s what’s characteristic
for type Sh. This type was relatively little widespread before the war, it
was at many large factories: engineering, automobile, ru-
husbandry, artillery, but his final triumph was sealed
during the war with its mass and normalized production. No need
to think, however, that this is a purely “military” tendency - no, it is completely re-
goes to the “civilian” industry - electrical, mechanical,
construction and even boiler industry."

Type of technical specifications are machine operators, so to speak, entering into production, these are—
a type of adult machine apprenticeship where adult men work
as if as students of the industry. Production initiative and pedagogy
Gogy here is embodied not in the person of masters and “drivers”, but scattered throughout
installer factory.

1) All attempts to build a new production organization are under i.
“scientific organization of enterprises”.

1) We understand installation as assembly, combination, vonotrutting, Translation
FrenchWe give Uzbek “totieg” - “to collect”, “Chetotsheg” - “to disassemble”.
38 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10
\ Table No. 1.
Manufacturing Mechanical
Class Otank workers
Series (Chip-separating works
Profes- Revol ‚|
sleep. | Automatic- | Frezi-Strogal-Slotting
Turner. (incl. workers (rowers. | Shaifoviiki.
melting into pieces. |romtsiki.| boxes, | nicknames

Types. lusvtomatakh).

- oarmavor: - AE PO
mentalists, performers
AI thread finishing

u. threaded and
smooth gauge and smooth
ry with finishing | calibers,
in a hardened form.
On the original
work on
Machine-building - turning in-
current.| "Renich and the Grinders-
external by General-purpose workers to general-purpose workers
P. |ryazunireals| surfaces,
[including original works, refinements of the original
M ORIGINAL CUTS
work, Ki with the help
comb and cutting
tsov.
On radial
horizontal- | On the mass
Turner on mas-| On the mass and
or grinding by
owl work on work on _ka- On mass work on | Shiiiiidalnyh
Sh. machines, pro-calibres, sha-
calibers, templates, templates, staples. ra-
blonam and
zones, staples, bosoms, staples, tissues
| and the temperature gauge.
cutting,
| Performing rough work on drilling | On sharpening
Turner for roughing and finishing of surfaces, general work on foreign tools
that one hand cutters or milling machines with
ripped off. TU using hand-held surfaces | control | “LbSArnich No.
tuners. news all around. otanochnyh.

.: - OI r I I E VU her

Worked at cleaning

when using: NOT surfaces
t the power of the mouth - conductors. 668 defined
newcomers. no precision,

No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 439

Table No. 2.

Manufacturing Mechanical

Klaso

Manual metal processing

Olesar Hewers.
Instrumental- | Mechanical engineer- | No.
Markers, Cutters,
boxes washed by a locksmith.
`
Working for
On stamps, on lapping, on general

raw and seasoned
working with straightening

hundredths, straight-

planes and oval

mechanical engineer -
1 halls | WE ARE Radalvyh, 520850 and experienced
toya fasonny, under paint, water and a
fine-tuning
complex. air. tal markings.
carborundum.
On oyrom iZtoto- | Pa of rigging B 8 Grinding house, by
mechanical and
n works with precision machines | risks with donusk
OH construction
+. .
templates otyu up to 0.01 p/sh, details. at 1.25 sho.
During production During cleaning, Rough trimming
running mechanic- | requiring chioto-
Sh casting iron
foot and machine | you touch and external
inotrument, finishing, etc
On draft
sawdust, have
character
refills and refills
runoff rough
stroke,

40 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10
Table No. 3.
Manufacturing Mechanical
Class Installation
Installers Repairers
‘
Mechanical Engineering - Monitors at
Mg Ready Installers. | Repairmen,
(Mechanism qualification,
her eo On the big one they stole. mor Moeoicheoi mizhiiv
nogo mechanic
and those FAQ foreign countries original
th slave r x >
We eat and chronometers on the left of Gr. |6tru working tools
1 r with ready-made - according to sketches with non- | bleating for
uli- I m
ryat meter-| spindles with PTO dimensions
some devices and | doy milestone (Car but place be able to install yes
willow snotem. and put it into action. |" Wash at- OU AYA
Vali- | p I
fication Tyr. ability, automata.
t g y MIN Qualificationdia
formal, newbies,
Mechanical qualification | On small | Qual. locksmith |, and in return | rim p and k
fication P gr. and| repair without t. lification And gr. adaptable
p Ability to collect | Execution of con- | E: And Skill
all other qualifications | manufacturing | Tina on „oski- | otru- rii ola
$ and IE bot but sketches | otanochnyh Ш, work between.
y p? sizes, 1U games. ` | working romont-
noah column,
Qual. locksmith Installers, to
] W gr. and rubshchyka I’m tinkering with
Sh tr. tions of the locksmith Sh gr.
Ш Work under control in Qualification
troll and pointer - SH Y fashionista and 2:6
niyamy of assemblers Sh t.
Ti Games. piece, vertical).
3 kj Freight assembly | AI
work, and ] Vrny
washed according to directions! a,
at the fitters Sh gr. according to instructions
‘Shokhruchiye mon. fitters C and

ter). Qual.
locksmith TU gr.

W gr.

No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 41

Table No. 4.

Manufacturing Mechanical
Class Technical control
Series Shop control

r
these,
WHISTLESS.

Wrapping work, using templates and patterns, as well as grinding

(Mechanism qualification G gr,

|
'Yo, nyh works with correction of all plumbing defects in the work.
|
oh,

Ts, Rejectors of plumbing work with editing according to qualifications And gr.

Senior rejectors of machine tool and metalwork work, supervising batches of defects -

Shchikovs and rejectors.
(Without editing the work). .
p Br checking a series of patterns or calibers. Rejectors checking

products for operations at workplaces,

No. Rejectors for secondary rejection, only with certain patterns and calibers.

During the war, the G type was characterized by unprecedented dynamism,
supplying entire regiments of workers to Group III. (Type 11).

Finally, type U’ are people who have almost no training, these are
Aryans or simply “workers”, known by the latter name
in St. Petersburg and Moscow. .

It’s far from just a matter of ‘working qualifications and in the field
manual labor. To show this, we present the following “table” (See.
table No. 1

Here the new industry produces its “typical” deposits in exactly the same way.
And it’s interesting that the same “minimalized” tendencies appear here too,
as in purely machine-tool work. Type G gives the highest artistic skill
great achievement: patterning and stamping work, where there is nothing to do
someone with calloused hands, & must have incredibly thin fingers
a sense of touch that is unfamiliar even to our refined bourgeoisie. As in
type 1 machine tools, purely assembly skills are required here.

We will not dwell in detail on other typical characteristics
ristikah; Let's just unwind the curious trend of introducing machinism into
42 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

`

types of work presented. The trend is outlined from bottom to top: from T\" type
to G. Type T will be eaten up by machinism when instead of “type” there appears
special tool factory.

We now move on to a new extremely interesting series of pure editing-
different types. (See thatbl. No. Sh.)

Mounting types are curious because, firstly, they gradually develop
crown their purely manual operations, replacing them with machine ones; secondly,
in that the higher type seems to act as a mass teacher of the lower. This
especially noticeable in a profession such as installers, where Type 1 teaches Type P,
type P teaches type Sh and so on. Maybe type 1 will take the type GI not from
assembly series, but from machine or manual processing series. Anyway
In this case, we are revealing here instead of individual professional
masquerading through the individual instructions of the masters—scattered
owl instruction.

With modern specialization, such paradoxes are possible that
A newer of the Sh type will instruct a turner of the P or even [type. This one
the paradoxical interruption in instruction must be noted once again,
to show how far instruction in modern industry has gone
into a run-of-the-mill job or even a small “operation.” Craft pedagogy
here it flies upside down.

The trend just noted becomes even clearer when we
We demonstrate “types” of technical control. (See table No. TU.)

During the transition period from the old industry to the new, as defects -
workers are extra-skilled workers who have undergone full
machine tool, plumbing and installation experience (type 1). But in the industry scientifically
built, the qualifications of rejectors gradually drop to 1U and \
types. Technical control is becoming, oddly enough, now
legion of the most unskilled workers. Moreover, in the future technical
Technical control is evolving so that it is no longer the laborers who are in control,
and special mechanisms, tools, machines. To manage such
You don't even need to be machine literate...

The “typical” characteristics just given give us
it is possible to make several generalizations.

The surviving type of the proletariat, representing, indeed, labor
nature of the class - this is type 1. This is the type where higher qualifications go
and qualifications of lower types. It characterizeslong-term social work
the global dynamics of the class. It is characterized by the highest degree of mechanization
labor, its normalization, the objectivism of work, alien to personal
dual effects and, finally, the accuracy of the work itself.

All these qualities of the PP type should be characteristic of psychology
"new" proletariat.

The “types” presented here provide material for social and labor
psychology of the proletariat. What is revealed to us is not only the mechanized
individual worker, but also the mechanized labor system
management. Not a person, not an authority, but a “type” - the group controls others
“types” - groups or even malpina, in the literal sense of the word,
controls living people. Cars go from being managed to being managed.

B. Work and production standards.

Even then, when modern Malpinism had not developed so widely, in
Western European proletariat, especially in England, were designated by any
the most torturous social and labor standards. They touched so deeply and so
diverse working life of the European proletariat, which systematization
they would require several substantial volumes. Here we present the most important
which have already found corresponding reflection in the Russian proletariat.

The most indicative norms must be recognized as the so-called orms
production. At the dawn of the labor movement, they developed as a form of ordinary
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 43

labor law, then they were enshrined in regulations and charters of the
professional unions. In Russia, standard regulations have been developed
extremely weak, but during the revolution on behalf of the most advanced union
metal workers were given the slogan of struggle for production standards, subject to
then seized by all working-class Russia. It would be vain to think that the norms
developments pursued only the goal of a deliberate organized reduction
productivity. No, they represented class pride in their own way.
proletariat. After all, it was and is nothing more than the production of the same
labor tension of entire workers of the enterpriseties, entire professions and,
finally, the whole class. In the future, the development of this normalization trend
tion promises a class claim of the proletariat unseen in the old world—
work not only within one’s own nation, but throughout the entire globe
nervously at the same pace.

It is curious that this trend of living human workers is completed by ma-
tire speed regulation, from which the agreement has no right to deviate
temporary worker in neither direction.

It might be objected that Taylor's system, with its consciousness, is “super
norms”, the creation of “model types” destroys the leveling tendency
rationing. But this is a deep misconception. The lore system can produce
conduct your wild experiments with “super-norms” exclusively with unskilled workers
and with manual labor, poorly qualified. At the highest stage of machinism
Taylorism simply coincides with all the machine technology of the century and gives up
before its solid fixed norms, |

In a word, purely human workers’ rationing of labor was
a vague premonition of a solid machine rationing of ‘labor, in which
all subjectivism drowns and the bare principle of technology triumphs,
rotating little by little and from purely technical to social.

Social rationing in the depths of the working class is not felt
only in the area of purely working life, but penetrates into the entire social
way of life, in all life.

Gradually, step by step, instead of scattered local customs,
an extraterritorial plan of working hours, working
rests, work breaks, etc. And here again one feels the coincidence
the combination of vague working aspirations with a tendency towards machinism, which
and leagues qualifying working holidays, breaks, etc.

Gradually expanding, normalization trends are being introduced into. combat
forms of the labor movement: strikes, sabotage, social creativity, nutrition,
apartments and, finally, even in intimate life down to aesthetic, mental
sexual and sexual demands of the proletariat.

G. Kovtury of proletarian culture.

Do I need to say it again?that to the definition of proletarian culture
must be approached with the greatest caution. The courage of some thought-
telov in this matter is crowned with greater honor only by banality.

They say that this is primarily a work culture. But work exists
since the creation of the world. This is the psychology of hired labor. But even here it is difficult to
distinguish slave psychology from proletarian psychology. Psychology of struggle, uprising,
revolution... But how little has passed in the general historical procession of the revolution?
tion classes? Finally, the last, decisive characteristic is the number
Lectivism And again “but”. Collectives - artels, collectives - communes, collectives
religious lectures, political, social groups... There were them
thousands...

It would be wrong for us to draw material for proletarian culture from
various forms of workers' organizations, political, professional and
cooperative. After all, these organizations are their organizational manifestation on-
go in only one form - democracy, parliamentary or direct in the form
referendums. One should not think that the type of “Soviet” organization opens
44 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

give us some new horizons for the revelation of proletarian culture.
After all, the “Soviet” constitution is nothing other than democracy with elections
corporative restrictions for the propertied classes, and besides, the councils
this is a political bloc of the proletariat, the peasant poor, and even the peasantry
"middle peasants". Somewhere in the distance, somewhere in the heights from these temporary formations
we must go to test the rising culture of the proletariat.

‚ For the new industrial proletariat, for its psychology, for its
culture is primarily characterized by industry itself. Housings, pipes, columns,
bridges, cranes and all the complex design of new buildings and enterprises,
catastrophicity and inexorable dynamics—that’s what permeates the everyday
consciousness of the proletariat. The whole life of modern industry is saturated with movement.
niya, a catastrophe, embedded at the same time within the framework of organization and
strict regularity. Catastrophe and dynamics, bound by the grandiose
rhythm -These are the main, overshadowing moments of proletarian psychology,

Methodical, ever-increasing precision of work, training muscles
and the nerves of the proletariat, gives psychology a special wary edge,
full of distrust of all kinds of human sensations, trusting
only to the apparatus, instrument, machine.

'Machinization of not only gestures, not only work and production
methods, but the mechanization of everyday thinking, combined with
extreme objectivism, amazingly normalizes the psychology of the proletariat.
We boldly assert that the only claos of neither the old nor the modern world
penetrate? The same normalized psychology as the proletariat. Wherever
he works no matter what: in Germany, in San Francisco, in Australia, in Siberia, with him
there are only general and psychological formulas that are quickly perceived
company of electric tone" the first production hint and complete it
into a complex template complex. There may not be an international language yet, but
there are international gestures, there are international psychological formulas,
that millions have. It is this trait that informs the proletarian
and psychology, amazing anonymity, which makes it possible to qualify
separate proletarian unit as A, B, C, or as 325, 075 and O it, p.
This normalization of psychology and its dynamism is the key to the greatest
spontaneity of proletarian thinking. This does not mean that the proletariat is
Montarno-spontaneous, like the peasant masses, artel, crazy, blind - net
this ‘means that in his psychology powerful loads are walking from end to end of the world
new psychological flows, for which there seem to be already several million heads,
there is one world head. In the future, this trend will not be noticeable. will create
the impossibility of individual thinking, transforming into objective psychology
chology of a whole class with systems of psychological switching on, switching off,
short circuits

Next to the marked, normalized psychology, it should be noted
special social constructiveness.

The proletariat, gradually broken up by the new industry into certain
new“types”, “species”, for people of a certain “operation”, for, people defined.
captive gesture, on the other hand, absorbs into its psychology all that
the grand montage of the enterprise that takes place before his eyes,
This is mainly an open and visible installation of the plant itself,
sequence and subordination of operations and fabrications, finally,
general installation of the entire production, expressed in subordination and control
the role of one operation - another, one fabrication - another, one “type”
to another, etc. The psychology of the proletariat here is already turning into a new
social psychology, where one human complex works under the control
the role of another and where often “controller” in the sense of labor qualification
is below the controllable and very often personally completely un-
western This psychology reveals a new workers' collectivism, which
manifests itself not only in the relationship of person to person, but also in the relationship
integral groups of people to integral groups of mechanisms. Such. collective
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 45

vism can be called mechanized collectivism. Manifestations of this mechanism
of collected collectivism are so alien to personality, so
are anonymous that the movement of these collectives - complexes is approaching the movement
the life of things in which there seems to be no longer any human individuality
faces, and there are smooth, normalized steps, there are faces without expressions,
a soul devoid of lyricism, an emotion measured not by a cry, not by laughter, but by mano-
meter and taximeter.

Isn’t it clear that in the person of the proletariat we have a growing class that
ry deploys both human labor and iron mechanics at the same time
of his new team, and new mass ‘engineering’, transforming pro-
letariat into an unprecedented social machine.

All this is not as simple as many specialists would like to think.
proletarian culture.

It is not with such simplicity that we would like to approach the problem of the proletarian
sky art. at

Usually, when speaking about proletarian art, ideologists not only
they just allow the worstgrew up, but also the main characteristic of the proletarian
art consider its deliberate simplicity. This approach to the greatest
The problem of our time seems to us to be a big misunderstanding. If
he doesn’t even speak about the proletariat, but about the modern people in general, the past
through the crucible of technology, war, revolution, then you won’t be able to approach it now.”
with that untouched simplicity that characterizes our folk art.
Nicky classics. As for the proletariat, then ‘approach it with pro-
from our point of view, it means preaching hypocrisy.

Of course, there is no need to deliberately make faces and engage in stylization, but
There is no need to revel in popular print.

From the perspective of the internal content of the new proletarian art
will have to approach’ the disclosure of all the complex and psychological
experiences that we have disclosed above as much as possible. And if only we were
pious lubovniks, then, of course, they would only try to pour
“new wine” in old skins. But such an enterprise will be doomed to failure.
good luck. A class that reveals unprecedented psychology will require early or
late for new methods of disclosure, it will require a new artistic style.

We don’t want to be prophets, but in any case, with the Iroletarian art-
We must associate with this the stunning revival of artistic techniques.
In particular, word artists will have to solve not such a problem,
which the futurists set for themselves, & much higher. If futurism put forward
problem of “word creation,” then the proletariat will inevitably raise it too, but
he will reform the word itself not grammatically, but he will take a risk, so
to say, on the technicalization of the word. The word, taken in its everyday expression, is already
nvno - not enough for the working and production of the entire proletariat. There will be
Is it sufficient for such a subtle and such new creativity as pro-
letarian art? We do not prejudge the forms of technicalization of the word, but
it is clear that this will not only be a sound enhancement, it will gradually
to be separated from its living carrier - a person. Here we come close
to some actionappropriate to the new combined art, where they will retreat
Purely human demonstrations, pitiful modern faces, are relegated to the background.
performances and chamber music. We are heading towards an unprecedented objective demonstration
things, mechanized crowds and stunning open grandeur, not
knowing nothing intimate or lyrical.

: I. Gastvv,
46 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—0

0 tendency of proletarian culture.
(Response to A. Gastev).

1. The question of proletarian culture cannot be resolved too simply: it is
complex and difficult question. 1

2. It should be solved on the basis of living reality, through research
development trends,

These are the provisions that are completely indisputable for us, which we have always carried out,
and which only due to a strange misunderstanding by Comrade. Gastev puts forward
kah something new.

3. This issue should be resolved entirely based on production technology,
from his “subtle molecular analysis”,

This is how his comrade is trying to solve it. Gastev. This is where our differences begin.
communication with him. We believe that the study of an emerging culture should
lead, based primarily on technical conditions, but not entirely from them, #2
only of them. The third position contradicts the second: it does not take everything
living reality with its tendencies, but only part of it, one side.
'The technical process of production is the basis of social life, but not war
this life. The proletariat lives on ore, but not exclusively on labor: it
lives also in the sphere of economic relations to capital and the market, as a pro-
seller of labor and buyer of consumer goods. He lives also
in the sphere of political and then “cultural” struggle that arises from this,
in the narrow sense of the word. Proletarian life is a whole and must be explored
it as a whole, and not tear out a piece, even a very important one, the main one. Here
Tastev wants to resolve the issue too “simply,” which means, as we see, he is entering into
in contradiction with its first position.

4. New Ovet metallurgy, automobile and airplane factories
America and Europe and, finally, the military industry of the entire globenew world—here are the new gigantic laboratories where psychology is being created,
where the culture of the proletariat is fabricated." This "must be accepted as an axiom,"
Gastev then repeats.

We do not agree to this. The solution to the issue becomes even more “simplified”
", instead of the whole living reality, more than one hundred of it is taken -
rona, & a piece of this side of her. And it is taken without analysis. Mechanical production
Vodevo’ in general can be considered advanced: scientific technology, concentrated
containing a gigantic amount of accumulated experience, a huge concentration of living
labor force. But is it really lower in terms of scientific and technical progressivity, for example,
chemical industry in Germany? A. then, about “the entire military industry”
ity of the globe“ one should have been much more careful, precisely since the time
world war. The fact is that “industrial mobilization”, with an unusual
the military expansion of the military industry, drew in a huge mass of
backward elements, throughout the past not proletarian, but petty-bourgeois
nykh and peasants. The indigenous proletariat was greatly depleted everywhere, in
in many cases it is downright flooded with them. Immediately become “cultured”
They, of course, could not be the vanguard of the working class. On the contrary, just
The backwardness of these masses determined some organizational features
the military industry itself, including, as we shall see, one of the most important, according to
Gastev's opinion is a trend.

So, already in the starting points of our critic there are undoubted errors and
contradictions. But before we trace how they actually bring him to
false conclusions, we need to focus on one hidden error, our
common to more than one Gastev, on a false premise, which unconsciously
accepted nowadays by the vast majority of people. This is ridicule
three deeply different organizational concepts; "planned organization"
“regulation”, “standardization”. G

No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 47

Gastev undoubtedly shares our basic idea regarding “cultural

tours in general, class or non-class: namely, that it comes down to s080-
utensils and fundsori of people's social life. He will agree

probably also due to the fact that proletarian culture is moving in the direction of dimensional
organization of life, first of the class itself, then of the whole society. But what is
this systematic organization?

When state capitalism was widely implemented in Germany,
then many—probably almost all—economists viewed it as a “plan-
measured organization" of the economy of society carried out by the bourgeoisie in its
interests. In fact, it was far from being a systematic organization.
ation, but only regulation, in the greatest part and even less
just normalization.

A bridge needs to be built across a wide and deep river. Construction
“systematically organized” by engineers. What does this include? First we researched
understanding of local conditions, i.e. acquisition of new ones related to the task
data. Then drawing up and developing a plan, i.e. combining these
data with previously accumulated technical experience using scientific
methods. Then selecting appropriate workers, purchasing materials,
tools, the expedient distribution of all these elements of production.
Finally, the execution of the task itself in accordance with the plan. Is it possible to cover
I describe the totality of organizing acts with one concept of “regulation?”
Of course not.

Regulation is only the “ordering” of what is being done, introducing
correctness in the ongoing work process, “Deeper. lies the whole creative side
process, which is its basis, Be can be designated as “combined
“conversion” of different elements of the process—taking the term in its broadest meaning:
combination. experience data into a coherent plan of living and dead elements
production into a single, effective group.

When a plan is created this way. and all the conditions are really brought together
its implementation, then the “business” goes stage by stage towards its goal: organized
nal system of things called a bridge. In the very course of the case, inconsistencies arise.
consistency and contradiction, For example, workers performing one. operation,
but they keep up with others who lead another, technicallyand previous
or subsequent; Others show carelessness in handling ©
material, or carelessness with machines; some employees call
dissatisfaction and protest of subordinates, which disrupts the progress of work; what-
Any delivered machines are ranked according to the magnitude of their useful action
lower than expected, some building materials but with those
resistance coefficients that were included in the project and under contracts ©
suppliers, etc. Then speaks on. stage second moment organized
ation process: “regulation”. It eliminates contradictions, introduces
necessary consistency in the relationships between different living and dead
factors, changes their proportions for this, those of work, discards the indignant
new, etc. It does not create, but corrects what already exists; it's on its own
not proactively, but only follows events, demands that
presents the progress of the case. It is like a court verdict, which is not
averts crimes, but restores the order he disturbed.

The very nature of regulation varies. Here it seems
two typical cases: “individualization” and “standardization”. In the first agreement
popping is developed specifically for 975 given conditions that caused
interference of regulatory activity; for example, by finding out how workers
of one function lag behind the workers of another associated with it, respectively
increase the number of the former or decrease the number of the latter; eliminate the engineer,
with which the workers are dissatisfied; recalculate and resize some
parts of the building in accordance with the resistance coefficients found in practice
materials, etc. In the second case, they are limited to the use of some
some kind of “norm” that should serve for all cases of this kind;

48 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

for example, workers are prescribed a certain daily “lesson”, with the requirement
so that they fulfill it or quit; na’ expression of dissatisfaction
respond with fines and offers to obey or leave; materials
decreeaccept only those that fully correspond to the original
assumptions, and otherwise send them back; In a word, this is—
pattern regulation. <

One should not think that the creative organizational moment refers
only at the beginning of the process, in our example, a technical enterprise. No,
to varying degrees, it plays a role in further stages. Firstly, if
During the course of the case, many new, unforeseen circumstances will be revealed,
or life will present new needs from the outside, then it may be necessary to re-
review of the developed plan, reorganization of the entire system; for example, it will become clear
very rapid economic growth of the surrounding area, and the possibility of
that the bridge will have to serve a much wider range of traffic;
or the likelihood that it will be needed for strategic purposes, etc.
In any capitalist enterprise this moment appears in every
expansion of production, with any technical or organizational
improvement, when introducing a new machine, and also when the enterprise
adapted for making a new product, etc. In general, in a developing
the system constantly has it, and is precisely the engine of development.

Secondly, the creative moment, although to a weakened degree (without ha-
nature of initiative) accompanies ‘and most cases of regulation,
especially where individualization is used: here, first of all, combination
data are analyzed and conclusions are drawn, and the result is partially new,
if not in a qualitative, then in a quantitative sense. The same applies to
normalization in the initial phase, when the norm is developed: this is an act of combination
national, creative character. In’ further, when the norm or
the template is only applied, the creative moment is reduced to insignificance
quantities, and the regulating ‘vkt’ becomes simply ‘mechanical 1).

In the matter of systematic organization, the initiative-creative side is obviously
Apparently, it is predominantly human, the least can be transmitted
dead mechanism, most of all depends on the culture of thebotnik—from the amount
experience and knowledge, from skill in applying methods, from the flexibility of the nervous
mental apparatus. On the contrary, the regulatory side, and especially the regulatory
working according to norms, according to templates, is incomparably less connected with these conditions
viami; through technical simplification, by splitting into separate,
istic operations, it is reduced in most cases to such elementaryness,
which is easily transmitted at first to the unskilled and uncultured
to the worker, & then even to the car.

It is precisely in this patterned regulation that Gastev says the following:

“Technical control is now becoming, oddly enough, a privileged
gia of the most unskilled workers. Moreover, in the future you will
technical control is evolving so that it is no longer the laborers who control
into special mechanisms, tools, machines“... ‘

But when this leads him to the conclusion about the “machine system of labor”
of control”, that “machines go from being controlled to being controlled”
"(he himself underlined this in italics), then it should already be clear to us,
that he had fallen into a misunderstanding. If; for example, a worker turns steel
balls, and the control machine throws aside those that

1) The quiet organizational processes of nature are not essentially different from
and dimensional, performed by humans: other tags are subject to general patterns.
Studying them in “Tectology” (organizational science), I designated initiative-creative
This moment of both is expressed by the word “conjugation”, which is regulated by the term “selection”; both
terms are taken from biology, which among the special sciences comes closest to the general ones
organizational issues. “Con’ogation” is a universal formative mechanism;
it creates something new by connecting what is; “selection” is a universal regulating
mechanism which of these new formations retains one adapted to their
environment, destroys others unadapted to it,

No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 49

However, this does not mean that the machine has become a “controller”, i.e.
organizer of the eventproduction It will confuse the organizational function in general
with its lower side - template-normalizing. Where is all the main ini-
the creative and creative side, and where even the highest forms of regulation, with
individualization of conditions?

Many machines have long had regulators for steam force, current,
speed, etc. When such a regulator is installed, let's put it on
known number of revolutions per second, it is clear that this is “regulated”
| then the attention of the worker and the themes of his actions. But does this mean that
' Does the machine control him? He must truly be a fetishist in order to
` perceive facts. Let him not set the speed limit for the car himself; but
he knows that it was established by other participants in production, on the basis
knowledge of collective labor experience embodied in science. In the same way
The imaginary power of the machine is for him - if he is not a fitishist - you express
sharing his organizational connection with other people, and even with other
generations, whose experience could be taken into account in this norm. If others
those who have established the norm are socially alien to him, do not belong to his comrades
to the collective, - let it be the bourgeois-engineering intelligentsia, -10 he
feels power over him, but not the power of a machine, but hostile class power;
it will then give rise to an ideology of struggle in him, and not an ideology of “norm”
lization,” as Gastev believes.

“But he refers to those “normalization trends” that are already underway
from the working class itself. They, according to Gastev, were designated in the usual way
European proletariat, especially the English one, even when the “modern
“New machinism did not develop so widely,” even “at the dawn of the labor movement.”
They were also reflected in Russia. Rastev puts “production standards” in the foreground,
fight for which. united the workers of all Russia during the revolution: They
did not simply pursue the goal of a deliberate organized reduction
productivity. “No, they represented class pride in their own way.”
proletariat,” In its development, this normalization trend “promises
unprecedentedthe old world class claim of the proletariat - not to work
only within the boundaries of one’s own nation, but throughout the entire globe, it is essentially the same
at a fast pace." x

It’s amazing how a preconceived idea supersedes laziness
gaze, impartiality of research. A wide variety of foods are displaced
are put together when they externally fit into a pre-attached
accepted scheme. And the same Gastev, without the slightest approval, calls me
’ “Ochematic”!

Every economist and many even non-economists know that “no
| world trends" of the English trade unions "at the beginning of the labor movement
.
|

And
|

|

` >

| deviate from the normal diameter, or have scratches, uneven

were primarily a measure of the previous craft-guild regda-
mentations. That is why in these normatives there was so much that was unsporioreational,
And see in them the tendency of proletarian culture!

The struggle for production standards is of a different nature, for example, in our revolutionary
tional era, with the intensification of the class struggle. These standards were established
not according to the average worker, but below average, so as not to be thrown overboard

’ a significant proportion of employees. How can they do this in an organized manner?
reduce productivity,” and Gastev has to justify them on the basis of “class
pride”, in the form of “a claim for the same work”. For labor
class striving to take into its own hands the entire organization of production in
goals of the highest progress, such “pride”, which is detrimental to productivity
the same color" may seem strange. But it has its own, temporary

’ grounds. Where is the most important and necessary “the same themes?” In the army. For
what is it required? To unite the fighting mass. “Production standards” are
collectivism not of labor, but of social struggle, does not serve for technical

_ progress, but for victory, Ochevilio, it is only temporary and partial

Pruder culture. No. 0-10, 4
50 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

tendency, To build a proletarian culture on it means to fall into a “con-
servatism,” which was so kind to Comrade. GAstev completely yields to me,

But, he says, the normalization trend coincides with the general trend.
tion of the development of machinery. It is not for nothing that “war with its massive formalization
production" consolidated the triumph of IT tariff type of the given tables,
This is a type of “mass work, devoid of any stamp”, where
“one piercing method prevails - the method of cutter and gear.” And
further; “This is exactly the type where the dequalification of higher and qualified
cation of lower types. It is characterized by the highest level of machinization
labor, its normalization, the objectivism of work, alien to any individual
dual effects, and finally, the accuracy of the work itself.” Indeed,
if you sharpen month after month, in hundreds of thousands, in millions, shrapnel
tubes or cartridge cases of the same caliber, which are already here
individual effects! But is this the ideal type of worker?

PP type before the war, i.e., in more normal production conditions,
was not widespread; and the war multiplied it terribly. Why? Because
that it was necessary to immediately increase the production of templates hundreds of times
elements of fighter equipment: cartridges, svaryads, rifles, field
guns, etc. The masses of non-proletarian, urban and rural
population, without the skills of industrial technology, without the proletarian
factory education. Adapt them to a new business as soon as possible
was possible only by completely reducing the work to templates, by
extreme “normalization”, What is this method of processing, inevitable for a time?
backward, non-proletarian recruits of the war industry predetermine
line of development of proletarian culture as a whole? It would be too sad
if it were possible. Fortunately, there is no reason for this.
The yoke of militarism, everywhere, and not just in the barracks, mechanizing people,
will be overthrown here in due time by the proletariat.

With a steady consistency that deserves better
applications, comrade Gastev makes truly formidable conclusions:

“Social rationing in the depths of the working classpiss is not felt
only in the area of purely working life, but penetrates into the entire social
way of life, in all life... Gradually expanding, normalization trends
are being introduced into militant {Forms of the labor movement: strikes, sabatage—in social
creative work, food, apartments, and finally, even in private life,
down to the aesthetic, mental and sexual demands of the proletarian." (Kur-
siv my. A, B.),

This monstrous Araicheevism is, of course, not the product of
national collectivism, but militaristic drilling.

And another conclusion -0 “the greatest spontaneity of proletarian thinking,”
coupled with “astonishing anonymity, allowing one to qualify
a separate proletarian personality” by some number or letter. He
tries to assure that this is not an ordinary spontaneity, “crazy, blind”,
and some other, higher one. But alas! - here is the picture that he himself immediately
draws: “powerful heavy psychological flows, walking from one end to another
world”, with psychological “inclusions, exclusions, closures”.
This is exactly the picture of what is called “panic mass sentiment”, with
sharp transitions from rise to decline, from combative impulse to submissive
dacha or mad flight. This is not a collective, this is just a crowd, or
even a herd,

It is not without reason that Gastev refuses to characterize prolegarian culture
its collectivism. This, in his opinion, does not clarify anything, “Collectives-
artels, collectives - communes, religious, political, social collectives
al... There were thousands of them,” he says,

Yes, there were thousands of them; and therefore we need to investigate, comrade. Gastev, not
just brush it off And from these thousands we must move on to that one thing,
letarian labor collective, which creates, spontaneously, #
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 51

then more consciously, a new culture. And when the “schematician” researched
shaft, then it turned out that this is what it turned out to be.

The proletarian collective is different and determined by a special organization
tional connection, which is called cooperation. This is
cooperation in whichThe royal and performing roles are inseparable
united, but connected in the totality of workers, so that there is no power
authority and non-reasoning submission, but there is a general will, which
decides—and the participation of everyone in the accomplishment of the common cause. Where's the work?
requires direct leadership of an individual, there instead of authority and power
stands for comradely recognized competence; and the one who is in one
in one case he was an instructor, in another he can immediately follow instructions
comrade whom he just led: the organizer and performer often
change places. This seems to be the "paradox of modern specialization"
Comrade Gastev, who notes the possibility that the PSh type installer
will instruct a turner III or even type 1; but this has been noted for a long time
in lochems" is a feature of the newest cooperation,

The study of labor collectivism, the real principle of pro-
flight of culture, was not carried out on the basis of the “elementary theory of class
struggle and theory of armed uprising." It came from labor technology
machine production. In this Gastev himself only followed the plan
there is a long way to get there.

A number of works have shown how a machine generates and forces new
type of work that combines organizational and executive features,
how, at the same time, the more and more basic homogeneity of workers’ labor increases and
the divisive force of specialization is overcome, as new technical
conditions lead to ever wider neuropsychic progress of the working
strength, to raise the cultural level of the proletarian. True, all this is based
did not rely on the experience of mobilized industry, it did not exist then, years
15 before the World War. But there was more than a century of development experience
machine production in normal, peaceful conditions, and temporary conditions
a new product of several years, created by destructive tasks, cannot
disrupt the conclusions drawn.

On the contrary, Gastev’s conclusion about the inevitability should be considered completely incorrect.
gentle absorption of Gi And working types, types of artistic subtlety and
engineering-versatileskill, imbecile-mechanical type 1.
This is only an average type, and only for a certain moment, and not a type at all
normal. It is completely incomprehensible why higher types should be “dequalified”
to become “fiction”, i.e. to lower oneself to it. On the contrary, progress and complication
machines instead of with the cultural growth of workers should little by little increase
shawl this type to a new level, merging technical and artistic flair
with versatile technical skill. In a team, communication is created fundamentally
howl homogeneity of type, giving deep mutual understanding; but one
It is valuable not because of “impersonality,” but on the contrary, because of “individuality,” which
does not at all mean individualism, but means the originality of personal experience and
abilities, thanks to which all units complement each other as a whole.

Gastev does not see how much it contradicts the impersonal “normalized”
mechanicalness and “social constructiveness”, in y = it is true
sees an important trend in proletarian culture. Where is it impersonal?
mechanical performer “to absorb into his hesychika the entire grandiose mon-
brand of the enterprise!

Meanwhile, for broad “social constructivity” it is required
“absorb” ‘not only this installation of a separate enterprise, And therefore our
The research did not stop there.

The technology of an individual enterprise, no matter how granular it may be,
is able to bind together only the workers of this enterprise. She can't
itself to give ‘connections to the class proletarian collective, & therefore
and serves as the exclusive basis of proletarian culture.

®

4*
52 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

Comradely cooperation, which begins and deepens within the framework of
kah workshop, factory, expands and goes beyond these frameworks in social
struggle. The link of the general economic situation, common interests formalized
develops and develops further in work organizations, professional,
cooperative, political, and then cultural,

This must be remembered, and not ignored, as Comrade does. Gastev speaking
so about the "rude grandfather"activity borrowed from propaganda
brochures." He too "simplified" both the question itself and his calculations on the other hand.
side. |

There is another side to his simplified schemes, hidden but scary.
important. Behind his team, created in the image and likeness of the backward masses,
drawn into the industry by its mobilization, the leadership is invisibly felt
authorities. ‹

In fact, is this mass of mechanized impersonalities capable of
in whose heads they “walk from end to end,” even very “heavy and powerful
andsychilogical flows,” is she capable of taking on this Sh tariff type?
yourself systematically or 7p0izv0d throughout the entire breadth and on a global scale?
Of course not. Demand this or that standardization”, agree to certain
other norms, yes. But where can she get artistic and scientific creativity and
engineering accurate calculation for construction and progressive development of construction
new world apparatus, technical and economic? This is the main one, the most
the difficult side of the matter of systematic ao for her. Obviously this
will be given from somewhere outside. Let's open the brackets: social will remain
a group of not impersonal, full of originality and talents, a scientist of other
who will take the initiative and provide overall leadership
over an anonymously spontaneous collective, on occasion taking into account “closures”
and openings” of the flows walking in it, but in general skillfully directing them,
This is an inevitable conclusion, since the question of rapprochement and then merging of both
types—engineering and executive labor—Gastev doesn’t even put 1),

This is what is really hidden behind the belief in “mechanized”
collective, behind the fetishism of “machines that control people.”

So, Gastev’s attempt contains deep errors. But we don't
we consider it “vitally barren,” as he kindly characterizes all of our
work, and let’s not look for “conservatism of Eastern philosophy” in it
(frankly speaking, we don’t understand what he means by this),

Serious searches can also lead to mistakes; but even then they are not mad
are fertile, even then it helped to find outthe best way.

So far we have not dealt with such critics. Passed in front of us

there were “skeptical” arguments about how the poor, downtrodden
the proletariat to build its own culture—if only it could understand how to
blows, his own petty interests; then ironic remarks about the “proletarian
geometry" from, for the most part, people who do not know geometry
in general, nor its socio-historical development,
Comrade Gastev is harsh in his criticism, and, as we have shown, unfair.
But he tries to explore and give a solution to the issue based on a positive
ny basics. Hume was damaged by a lack of “laboratory caution”; but’ it
an attempt is still material for further troubles.

The idea of ​​proletarian culture does not exclude criticism or polemics; but
and she makes them a form of comradely cooperation. Let's move on
explore and develop the work!

I. Bogdanov.

O] This question is discussed in the chapters on the collectivist system of the three moikh vur-
owls of political economy - “Initial”, “Short” and a course compiled together with
Stepanov (P volume, issue 4). The latter was previously discussed in “Social Issues”
piama“, Moscow, 1918, article one).

<
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 53

0 provincial proletarian universities.

In the provincial centers, proletarians are being established one after another
universities. We have materials about existing ones for about a year
under this name institutions in the cities of Petrovka and Orel, developed
project from Ekaterinoslav, the news that it was decided to organize a pro-
Tara University in Tula,

The programs are very different. The Ekaterinoslav project is based on the re-
resolutions of the Voerossiisk Conference of Proletkult and, consequently,
in general corresponds to the organization of the now closed Moscow Proletarian =
University This, of course, will be the program of the Tula University.
university, which is founded with the participation of one of the responsible
niks of the central proletkult. But a completely different type of university
in Petrovsk. It's just wideto delivered popular science courses for
adults. It has a literacy section, a popular science section and
new languages, it is planned to open sections of medical knowledge and pedagogy
gogic; accounting courses were organized; public lectures were held
about religion, about the Spanish disease, etc. At the same time, social sciences
are generally represented relatively weakly, less than natural and philo-
logical, mainly, of course, due to lack of strength. As for
Oryol University, it fits more or less into the type of “folk

universities” and, to tell the truth, not the most perfect type.

There is a humanities department, with a predominance of literature and history; copper-
cynoky; then natural-mathematical, where in the natural sciences the answer is
Much attention is given to the descriptive side, and the basics are given in mathematics
analysis according to an abstract, ordinary program, even without connection with natural
scientific and technical applications; finally, the technical department, with sub-
preparatory courses in lower mathematics.

Without a doubt, there are no compulsory programs for the proletarians.
There is no need to talk about universities. Creativity of new forms and in this
the area should be free. But it is still quite legal to require that
the names corresponded to the things and did not lead to misunderstanding. Therefore
Odvali can be considered correct when courses of the same types as in Petrovok
in Orel, are designated by the name of “proletarian universities”. In these words
There are two big ideas here. First: a class institution is not just for
proletarians, and proletarian in its essence, in its spirit and meaning
and, that means, first of all, according to the program. Second: organization of a united and
in-depth scientific knowledge. Evening general education and special education
These courses are necessary and useful, especially when they serve workers; on-
Native universities are a powerful tool for the democratization of knowledge. But also
Both of them gain nothing from an incorrect sign. To attract
workers do not need it - the desire for science andstrong enough without that
in the masses; into their class consciousness is undoubtedly only obscured by such
easy use of the word “proletarian”. Where the work doesn't work out
beyond the limits of the elementary or popular, the loud name of “university”,
in addition, it contributes to the development of a frivolous, superficial attitude
to science, incorrect assessment of cognitive work. And not at all
This is a letarian thing - loud titles without content justifying them.

What should be the approximate program for provincial workers?
universities? The All-Russian Proletkult Conference outlined one and
the same general plan for the center and for the province, and, of course, in the basics it
must be general. But, firstly, when performing it, from the very beginning it is preferable
significant freedom was given to local initiative organizations in the post-
new del: a variety of particulars, all kinds of options are necessary and useful
for development. Secondly, one cannot ignore the lack of suitable scientific
training forces in provincial centers, the shortage is often very acute;
54 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 9—10

it must inevitably affect both the methods of implementing the plan and
especially on its consistency and completeness,’Even in Moscow it was not easy
recruit managers and had to partly adapt the order
studying subjects to the possibility of using certain professors
from comrades occupying many responsible Soviet positions.
In the provinces it is even worse.

So, first of all, there is no doubt that for the coming academic year the local
proletarian universities that will open must limit themselves to
live the course of the general plan, This is inevitable due to the fact that for the second

course there would be no students, except perhaps a few singles. After all,

Oskov University, which brought together proletarian students from all over Russia,
for the first time I could not open the second course on a full scale: it was difficult
only the senior group of several dozen people is divided, sufficiently sub-
prepared in many subjectsfor in-depth scientific work of the second
course, but studied other subjects together with other comrades, Voz-
it is possible, and even likely, that local universities will have to ‘do business in
within the first course for the next two to three years. We must remember that in general
plan and this first course provides a broad, holistic sum of knowledge and skills,
creates a worker who is more prepared by his education in scientific and
socialist sense than the vast majority of those who fill
now Soviet institutions, and, of course, everyone whose local university
tet is sent to continue the course to the central one, must find there
a place for yourself.

1st year program developed for Moscow University,
was this:

Approximate number

Course name. teaching hours.

T. Organization of oral presentation and discussion. ‚ about 40 hours.
Methods of written presentation ......., in m
Ways to use literature and sources „ 14 „
ye O
Oh Oh her
Introduction to chemistry jan, Jerome they Aa
Introduction. in zootronomy ‚vine yoke 98 i
Theology in connection with the geomorphology of the people of VO
Introduction, biology ^. la i. Lena BliyvbI
IOVAY PA IN SO A #26807
Physiological psychology yes no 28 p

1. Introduction to political economy ..... and. oo la
Introduction to Russian history in connection with the universal VV
Introduction to the Study of Scientific Socialism Ava
History of the labor movement and workers' forms

OBanivation Il. wow hits
Forms of public, yen, p. 48;
Total approx. ‚ ‚630 hours.

In addition, a number of additional courses freely chosen by students:

1) repeat courses in arithmetic and Russian for casual
unprepared in these subjects; 2) new languages—French, German,
English; 3) drawing, drawing; 4) statistics; 5) regional studies; 6) history
literature, art history.

There is no doubt that for some even the basic items will be needed’
business trips of heads of professors from the center. They can't be
especially long-lasting, and therefore such items cannot be stretched
for the whole year's schedule orat least for 1-2 trimesters: they will have to be
center, entirely. or in large parts, at short intervals
time. E.g. history of the labor movement and forms of labor organizations
No. 9—0 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 65

can be given in the form of sufficiently independent and integral courses
lecturers who come every time for 2-3 weeks. Continue this course
in the form of practical exercises, local lecturers will also be able to
nearby specialties, following him at lectures and having discussions
in detail with visiting leaders. at

However, stretching objects, practiced in ordinary universities,
ski schedules and generally impractical; work productivity
learning only decreases due to long breaks between classes; total
Things go better, as experience shows, when classes in one subject
the meta is carried out 2-8 times, for those that are easier in a methodological sense, even
4 times a week, each time ® teas; only for those difficult to explain
Lectures are better than 1 hour. The student then studies 3-4 subjects simultaneously, his
attention is not divided excessively, and losses from “forgetting” are minimal. But,
Of course, the sequence of transition from some
objects to others and the choice of those that are intertwined.

However, there should not be excessive uniformity in the content of the work.
bot, it weakens energy. And some items, especially important in the world,
Todological education, Kah mathematics, biology, political economy,
it is better to carry out the entire annual course so that their influence on the overall course
mental development was different.

Provincial proletarian universities, in the general interests of development
working class, should not reduce their work entirely to the creation of scientific
labor collective from those still relatively few workers-students
comrades who will complete the course completely, devoting the greatest
share of your strength. Such students - according to the university plan, fellows or
and half-scholarship recipients must already have some training in advancetradesman;
According to current conditions, even in a large center there are hardly hundreds of them,
more like dozens. The university should not only give them in-depth
knowledge, but also to spread light widely among the masses. For this purpose, it is currently planned
two ways.

Firstly, the student body itself: for them cultural and educational
Hard work is the best form of application of cash and acquired knowledge
to life. These are “social and practical activities” that should be
go alongside scientific work, of course, on such a scale as not to undermine
beat her. Students of the Moscow Proletarian University, only
they organized themselves, decided to conduct it as obligatory for everyone, namely
such educational and propaganda work in the Moscow garrison,
multi-thousand and fluid in composition; professors took charge of the matter,
and only the business trip of all students for mobilization upset the fulfillment
tion plan. This type of occupation in the working and Red Army environment is not
only everywhere they are useful and necessary in themselves, but they are also important because
support the connection of the student body with its basis and support, with
life of the masses

Secondly, the composition of the classrooms of the local proletarian university, we
We believe it should not be limited to real students. And it's not
only in the sense that the prolegarian university should be the center
organizing public lectures for workers. Basic activities are also not
should be kept strictly closed. On the one hand, in addition to fellows and
semi-students, of course, will have to admit “volunteers”, working
systematically, but not connected by the entirety of the program: the majority
they will be able to attend only part of the classes of their choice, which will allow
they have free time. Their participation in practical and seminar work will be
obviously placed within such a framework as not to harm the interests of the main
student collective, which itself will resolve all this. On the other hand
On the other hand, the very lectures of the course may be open even not only to these
volunteers, but also the diya of other workers, sinceku oto will allow you to accommodate
most audiences,
56 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 9-10

Then the cycle of additional items should be expanded if possible
much more than expected at the Central Proletarian University
aunt. This must be done especially in two areas: technical and co-
cial-instructor. There are not so many in provincial centers
professional instructor courses, which are available in the capitals. Prole-
Tara University should generally be the center around which
such are organized. courses and, since there are none, fill them as best you can with your own
means this deficiency; forces suitable for this will obviously be found
in greater quantities than actual scientific ones. Petersburg Proletkult
at his university he organized demonstration workshops of various professions,
equipped with the best machines; use them except for students and
listeners, can, to an even greater extent than lectures, a lot of other
gee workers. There may be centers where it will be possible to organize
efficient polytechnic institutes for workers; there is a proletarian university
should not compete, but maintain contact with them through mutual
participation in work and assistance with scientific forces.

Last year it was supposed to be in Perm. open—the war prevented—
a special type of institution, under the name “State Communist
university,” but which would be more correctly called: “social policy
technical school. These are widely ramified instructor courses; their branches
should have covered all branches of social activity, prepared
responsible workers for all aspects of public organization and management
phenomena: politics and administrative affairs of various commissariats, professional
national and cultural movements, the establishment of cooperatives, communes, etc.
The proletarian university cannot create this kind of institution at all and
should not replace - its task is completely different: developing guidelines
figures of socialist construction, and at the same time new forms of science
and scientific work. Choin provincial conditions, being usually the only
national scientific center, proletarian university as far as possible
forces should organize the replacement of such courses in the form of a series of lectures and practical
ical classes on instructing in various areas of social work.
Their main cadres will not consist of students; but the students will also
going here on occasion is a useful addition to your routine. theoretical
and practical work.

The tasks of local proletarian universities, as we see, are outlined
on a wider scale than for the center; this follows from the situation itself
life. Therefore, provincial universities will especially need
the existence of a center that would help them in live communication, using
himself with their support, sharing with them experience, materials and scientific forces.
'It is now closed, hopefully for a while, due to the heavy military situation'
stops. Surviving and re-opening local universities
must do everything possible for them to speed up
at the first improvement in objective conditions, its restoration is in the interests of
proletariat and revolution.

A. Bogdanov.

Towards the closure of the proletarian university.

Currently, the Moscow Proletarian University is stopping
your existence. Its closure is motivated by the difficult military situation,
not allowing long and systematic scientific work for proletarians.

Here are the main facts related to this event.

The Central School of Soviet and Party Work developed
the project of its merger with the proletarian university. Although the author of this project
was N.V. Rogozinsky, who was at the same time the chairman of the proletarian
university, - but © the content of the project to students, professors and performers
No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. I'm 57

The body committee of the proletarian university became aware only after
how it was reported by the author and carried out in the Central Committee of the Communi-
stic party, ; ;

Here is the text of this project (in the form of a decree).

‚|) Moscow Proletarian University, Central school8 Soviet and couples”
secret work and other similar educational institutions of the people's commissariats and all-Russian-
All centers of proletarian organizations are united into workers’ and peasants’ communes.”
Scientific University named after comrade. Yakov Mikhailovich Overdlov,

2) Temporarily the Workers' and Peasants' Communist University is functioning
composed of two faculties; Soviet and party, with two courses on each,—
with the first cure lasting 3-4 months and the second 9-13 months.

8) School of instructors of the All-Russian Central Council of Professionals
unions, instructor courses of the All-Russian Council of Labor Cooperation, food
specifically cooperative courses of the People's Commissariat for Food, Armenian railway courses
People's Commissariat and other similar educational institutions in Moscow merge with equal-sized ones
cycles and simultaneous sections of the Soviet faculty, and the 1st year of the Moscow
proletarian university - with general theoretical courses at the Central School
Soviet and party work.

4) In the 1919-20 academic year, classes in the 1st year of both faculties of working
peasant communist university are carried out according to the agreed educational
plans and programs of the Central School of Soviet and Party Work and the Moscow
proletarian university.

5) Soldering in the 9th year of both faculties of workers' and peasants' communist
University are built ioncentrically, the highest successive level of educational
ilan and 1st year programs, with both courses opening at the same time.

5) Students of Moscow Proletarian University and Central School
Soviet and party work, as well as cadets of other united educational institutions
denies are distributed between the faculties and courses of the workers' and presiding communism
at the University of Chechnya, depending on the preparation of each comrade and his agreement
© educational executive body of the communist university,

7) For the implementation of the designated mission, all scientific, literary,
journalistic and technical forces of Moscow - per hourness of strength faculty of public
nvok Moscow State University, Socialist Academy of General
sciences, Moscow Proletarian University, Central School of Soviet
and party work and all other educational institutions united by the workers-peasants
Yang communist university,

8) Scientists, educational, administrative and non-linear units of all united
advances are merged into the corresponding unified bodies of the workers' and peasants' commu-
nistic upiversity.

9) The Workers' and Peasants' Communist Universiteg is in charge of
People's Commissariat for Education.

10) General political leadership of the party faculty of workers’ and peasants’
communist university is carried out by the Central Committee of the Russian
communist parties (Bolzieviks).

11) The Charter of the Workers' and Peasants' Communist University is being developed
in relation to this document and the conditions and character that have been determined so far
activities of the Central School of Soviet and Party Work, Moscow Prole-
Tara University and other merged educational institutions,

12) The implementation of this decree is entrusted to the organizational
Commission of the Workers' and Peasants' Communist University, which includes:
a) 8 representatives each from the Moscow Proletarian University and the Central School
Soviet and party work, and 0) one representative from each of the others
united educational institutions, Ts, K.R.V.P., People's Commissariat of Food and Presidium V.Ts.I, K.“

r

This was in early July. Some of the students who have all been since May
were sent for mobilization work, returned from the command
roving. Having gathered together with the available professors, they unanimously
decided to ask, through a special delegation, for a review of the decision, and in
its management adopted the following resolution:

“Between the proletarian university and the schools of the Soviet and party coordination
tion of work is necessary in order to achieve maximum cohesionost strength and not
allow them to spray. But this coordination should by no means take the form of a merger,
so each of the two institutions has its own special tasks, and 0bv to the same extent
necessary for the proletariat in its struggle for socialism.

The task of all short-term schools and courses, even the highest ones, like Ts, Sh. S., R.,
is the training of workers serving Soviet and party work in this
fighting moment. The task of the proletarian university is, on the contrary, to prepare
leaders of the proletariat to reinforce the current leaders, to create the brain of the working class,
58 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 19—10

These leaders must receive from science the complete military weapons they need to
enormous organizational work, which the prolegarit took upon himself, Only then
the danger of the dominance of technical and scientific workers and the alien intelligentsia will be eliminated
and the bourgeoisie, who, formally adhering to the Soviet republic and party, may not
to freely and sometimes deliberately distort the work of socialist struggle and construction.

The mass revolution was now taking place, entering the historical arena
the proletariat as a conquering class is inevitable: but it will lead to a new period
updating scientific methodology and the formulation of scientific tasks, and along with the slow
by conquering the old, previously impregnable fortresses of scientific thought, the proletariat must,
will create such fortresses himself. Therefore, along with the Soviet and Ivrtian icons,
serving its immediate needs, the proletariat needs a university that
will become not only a center for teaching, but also a laboratory where they will revise
and develop the very methods of scientific work.

In view of all this, a simple merger of Pr. Un, and C, Sh. S. R. is impossible in any sense
program, neither in terms of the duration of the courses, nor in terms of the composition of the recruited comrades,
In the program C, 11. S, R. the main place should belong to the data and conclusions
science as applied to current social work; in the program Ir. Ui, general scientific
methods and in-depth scientificsocialist work. Therefore, for example, in the published
program Ts, Sh. S.R. mathematical and sciences are not included and cannot be included
natural, methods of using literature and sources, laboratory techniques,
study of “Capital” it, etc., whereas in the program Pr. Un, everything is necessary, Three -
or the four-month period of the first course is completely insufficient for padach Pr. Un.
Finally, the strictness of class selection of students, unacceptable in Ts.P.G., S.R., where it
would harm the breadth of the matter itself, is appropriate and necessary in Pr. Ui., where is the proletarian
the composition of the staff should determine the spirit and direction of scientific work, Participation
students Ave. Un. in current social work it is considered: necessary
the practice of applying science as it is mastered and, therefore, subordinated to the tasks
creative scientific work; in the C.S.O.R. military efforts, on the contrary, should be concentrated
on the rapid assimilation of ready-made scientific data and their direct application to life,

Thus, merging with C, Sh. O. R. kills the very idea of Pr. Un, and reduces to zero
this huge amount of effort spent on its implementation, giving in return only
increase in the number of C. 11. S. R. by a fifth or sixth share. $

Based on these considerations, the meeting believes that scientists Pr. Un.
must, of course, serve Ts.Sh.O.R. and P,R. and provide her with all kinds of learned and
organizational assistance, but Pr. Un. should be preserved as a laboratory of new
forms and a source of new highly qualified forces in the struggle for socialism.”

Based on this, the presidium of the proletarian university proposed
delegation to defend only the program of the proletarian university, not
opposing the administrative and technical merger, which could give
considerable savings in effort, amendments were proposed to the project, reducing
to the establishment of a third faculty, general scientific, with a two-year course in professional
grams of the 1st and 2nd year of the proletarian university. 3rd chicken, according to
presidium, could subsequently be organized under the Socialalistic
academies; but in any case the question about it could have been postponed,

July 17 in “Izvestia V. Ts, I. K.” an article appeared, a discussion one, for
signed by S. Novikov, expressing a point of view not only of practical
denying the possibility of preserving a proletarian university, but in principle
a great denial of his very idea. Here are the conclusions of this article in its exact terms.

“The leading circles of the proletarian university are trying to prove that
the latter is the training of leaders of the working class, in contrast to the short-term
schools and Refeni only workers to serve the party and Soviet
work at this moment of combat,

It is precisely at this moment of combat that the proletariat has no time to prepare leaders for itself, -
it is enough if he prepares leaders and workers for himself, and for this - 4 months of training
in the 1st year and 9 - 12 months in the 2nd year - the period is more than sufficient in the conditions of prolongation
Tara revolution. Hardly. Will anyone prove that in a situation of civil war
it is necessary to “lead” workers and peasants for whole years through the wilds of organizational
science, socialist ideal, etc.

and the experience and growth of every worker or peasant who visited the three-day
All-Russian Congress of Soviets or at a three-hour joint meeting in the House of Unions,
one can easily see how quickly leaders rise from among the working masses
in the context of the proletarian revolution.

A communist university, unlike a proletarian university, must * educate
in the workers and peasants there is a “revolutionary-Marxist” attitude to the world, in “readiness and
the ability to replace the capitalist world with a communist one. :

Along with the communist university, the proletarian university does not have the right to
9separate existence“, ,

No. 9-10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 59

Professor of the proletarian university, comrade. M. N. Smith, was written
a response article that thawed out the importance of the revolutionary-Marxist world-
relationship and deep penetration with the socialist ideal, as well as
the need to form not only leaders, but also leaders forI'm a worker
class, moreover, precisely from the proletarian environment. This article did not appear.

On July 3, the issue was again examined by the C.K.R. TO; And, it was decided to leave
the merger project is in force. But, according to Professor N. I. Bukharin,
also a member of the Central Committee, R, K.P., this decision was motivated not by denying
the idea of a proletarian university, which, on the contrary, is recognized
useful and necessary, but only by the difficult situation of the Soviet republic;
the question of restoring the proletarian university was considered appropriate
postponed until the elimination, mainly, of the current military difficulties.

Let's hope that this time will come soon, and we will try until then
It’s time to prepare the implementation of our dear idea as best as possible!

Chronicle of Proletkult. .

In the provinces

Judging by May, Proletvult doesn’t even think about
summer vacation. He thinks, fights, works,
with the onset of summer he seemed to feel
a new surge of vigor and strength. Work how
in Proletkult, and in organizations, with it
touching, sewing more freely and wider.
In clubs, studios, universities there is almost no
there is a drop in work, but next to this
intense and vigorous activity began
in the open air, in sports, in work
neighborhoods, at railway stations, city
rod t s der talk about
mobile and floating tetrakh, floating
museums, exhibitions.

More and more new Prolet-
cults: in Odoev, Tula province, in Bo-

Isoglebek, in Shatsiye. Rudovsky (near
Kirsanova) Proletkult already at birth
smiles affably at the village. His drama is
tic circle in the village of Osinovye
Gai, staged Ostrovsky’s play “Poverty”
not a vice” and left a very vivid impression
tion. Open Proletkults in Borovichi,
Novgorod province, Olavyansk and Akhtyrka,
Kharkov province, in Ust-Sysolsk and Ve-
Lak Ustyug.

The first period in the life of Proletkults
is difficult. Their speech is not yet complete
correct. It can be difficult for them to find right away
a suitable society for yourself. So, in Penza
tops were carried out at Proletkult for the first time
bad, headin a different way from the non-proletarian
of the Council's composition. At the January conference
rents a new Council was elected, which
began energetic work. But Prolet-
cults that are at least a year old,
they speak in clear proletarian speech, and
not only speak, but also work meaningfully
and fruitful. This is Saratov, Tula,
Tambovsky and other Proletkults. Sarah’
The Soviet Proletkult leads an energetic
work among the Red Army soldiers, ‘works’ in
village, he created a number of studios, work
which has already produced certain results,
dums over the proletarian theater, organized

holds lectures in the district, work is brightly outlined
in Tula and Tambov, in other Proletkults
the work is slower, but still they are useful
are trusted by the working masses. In Nuznetsk
Union of Driving Workers
decided to give Proletkult 50 thousand
and the Workers' University 250 thousand for
further exploration in Vleisk County
(Tula province) sympathy for Proletkult
reached the point that the local cafeteria and
they decided to transfer the teahouse to Prolet-
cult. Work is progressing slowly in Yelets, where
For some reason the Proletkult library is not working
melts and is even closed. In Voznesensk too
there is little strength for further work.

Club life is also developing. Appear
workers' clubs were formed in Ostrogozhek, Voro-
Nezh province, in Ardatovsky district, Nizhny Novgorod
city province, in Shuya. Unfortunately, work
in clubs it doesn’t always go well. She's fast
is getting better and running well in clubs,
open at the factories and factory there is no brin
no dancing, no cards, no light entertainment
tera, but serious, concentrated work is going on
Bota: studios are opening, a theater is being created,
Newspapers are subscribed and conversations are held. And that's it
these undertakings arouse interest, create
rise, focus attention, These are
clubs at the Rostokinsky dyeing factory
near Moscow, at the shot foundry,
at the Tsindel factory. In the urban workers' clubs
bang the work is going weaker, sometimes even more
fades away. The composition of visitors, random and
mixed, greatly weakens the life of the club.
Time is often filled with dancing orempty vaudevilles, as, for example, in Zhu-
forging, Bryansk district, where in the workers' club
there is a complete absence of workers;
prices for seats at performances reach
80 rubles. Things are a little better
in Kineshma, in Livny. All these failures
of course, ‘they don’t tell you what you need from-
seem from city workers' clubs, but to
their creation needs to be started with greater
preparation. This condition seems to be
Answers your open labor club
trials named after Trotsky in Saratov, Pri
60 PROLETARIAN CULTURE,

The club has organized about 10 different
studios; The club is led by instructor Pro-
letkult. Gardening workers' club in
Moscow, organized by the Central Ra-
side by side Cooperative, also conducts successfully
work. Decay is noticed in club life
printers, In Moscow at the printers' club
at the Triumphal Gate of 1600 people left

00. In Voronezh, the Printers Club of Iran ©0-
the Soviet printing house turned into a general
city club.

The proletarian theater, apparently, will not soon
it seems, What we now call pro-
the Tara Theater, of course; just attempts
first shawls, impulses. A lot of effort and time
I will require it to be created. But against
theater of the past, a decisive effort was made
offensive "Vourgeois theater, which
we inherited from the old system,
must disappear along with this system,”
writes Saratov Gubproletkult: now
we can say with confidence that the theater
past has changed greatly: in his physio-
nomia appeared more self-conscious and
rigor. He approached closer and easier
working people, learns to serve the revolution
nation and the proletariat. Raised in Aotrahani
the question of creating a mobile primitive
new folk theater like the one
was. in Moscow on May 1st. This theater should
serve working areas in the evening
hours of rest, For the same purpose in Vyatka so-
a floating theater is being armed with a permanent
corpses, agitators, musical - vocal -
by forces and orchestra. Gradually
contacts nzuka. In many opera houses
theaters before the performance with success reading
are multiplesome lectures. At the working university
aunt named after P, Alekseev in Moscow after
lectures on the history of literature are illustrated
industries in which I take part
dramatic and opera artists. Public
in theaters ceases to be only passive
viewer. In Balashov “improvised
special evenings where amateur performances
begins to fully manifest itself. Feel-
there is a conscious and thoughtful response
wearing to creative material, from which
the viewer and the artist are ‹ components of the element
ment" of the Proletarian Theater in its purest
and we don’t have a finished form, but we already have
the 8th essential elements are healthy,
from which he created, From Rzhevsk they write:
“New ways are being sought in the field of nuclei-
mathematical creativity." Petrogradsky and
Moscow Proletkults LRKO showed,
what can be done in this direction.
Created naturally, born from the depths
working class, Proletkults immediately introduced
took the right position in this sense,

Work in the studios is also expanding.
Work studios are opening and many
plants and factories, in workers' clubs, non-
which trade unions,
Most often, drama studios open
chesical In them, the results of the work are stated
quickly, and within a couple of months
studio members not only perform, but also benefit
creatively influence the life of local theaters.
Easy to set up work also in choirs

No. 9—10

mugs. Work in other studios is underway
worse or takes longer to
so that its results are reflected, Still have
there is news about a very interesting exhibition
works by Proletkult studios in Rybinok
and Smolensk. In Atkarsk on Proletarskaya
the exhibition presents collective works
bots. In Smolensk in literary and scientific
The studio's work was still going slowly. In the distance
It was decided to “oblige lecturers to
material without any admixture of personal point
vision and read a full course of literature,
starting from the first periods of origin."
But this is unlikely to advance the matter.

As one might expect, in many countries
waiting iroletar university non-
the proletarian element has been sufficiently revealed,
and the universityrsitytsky even less, And yet
we have to welcome them. Great for-
dachas facing the proletarian university
site. And it goes without saying that
difficult and probably long journey
the creation of a proletarian university seriously
a skilled worker will have to endure a lot
failures, evasions, failures, never mind
the main line of work has been found. In fact you-
clarifying the idea of a proletarian university
and the methods of his work should be noted
proletarian ‘university & in Moscow, goat
before his discovery, he went through a lot of pain
I do all the preparatory work. In view of the re-
living moment, he is now forced
merging with the party's co-school,
undeniable closeness. interests and environment
both organizations, the Moscow proletarian
tions university is still a lot during the merger
will lose in the sense of seriousness and depth
ness of their work. Party school, from
giving strength to the given ‘moment, not
can be adapted to reorganization
science on a new basis and for a longer
noah concentrated in this direction
work, which the prolegar was counting on
skiy university.

Significantly restored the proletarian uniforms
o s—in Moscow menu Lib a, and
n Ovratov both in terms of the composition of the audience,
so in the sense of energy and uplift, with which
This is where university life goes. When
University in Spratov has a rich
library; several reading rooms, on-
classrooms. The composition of the audience, if
not exclusively, then predominantly
Letarian. The attitude towards classes is extremely
extremely serious, In Moscow, lectures in ra-
at the Liebknecht University
At least 800 people live there. Open parallel
Lecture department in the people's house named after
And, Alekseeva, where classes are apparently taking place
successfully. )

Tanov's picture of the construction of the proletarian
culture for May, since it reflects
appeared in periodicals. demand
under the current conditions of enormous revolutions
talents, brilliant successes, exceptional
good luck - first understand everything seriously -
the complexity and complexity of the work ahead. But
that the work is growing and getting stronger, thiso - inconsistent
I think '

0, Rainin,

No. 9—10

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 61

Report of the Tula Provincial. Proletkulta
from January 1 to June 1, 1919.

Studios,

Theater Central Studio. Given
240 lessons. Stage demonstrations and
initial quests characteristic of the path
to the proletarian telescope - 10.

One of these evenings, May Day, revealed
are examples of the rudiments of the essence of the proletarian
theater through non-performance of poetic
the sentiments of communist worker poets; it was
granted the beginning and development of October-
Russian revolution, its significance, internal
the world of fighters in communism; in parallel -
the hundredth world and, in conclusion, the day of May 1st,

This evening it was achieved, truly
a perfect unity between the auditorium and the stage,
but not with those conventionally bourgeois methods,
somehow; walking across the ramp into the auditorium
hall and back, or giving performances at
streets, & correct identification of the essence
the beauty of what was shown, the captivating content
to those in the auditorium,

Reveal the essence of the work on stage
in its entire depth so that the product
was completely clear and to
the viewer's mania was captured by a separate
the action on stage of one or another person,
in the content of the work as a whole - here
something that should be one of the main
methods of work in the proletarian theater.

Given performances by the instructors
vom, how to provide visual practical lessons on
mastering theatrical techniques,—82.

The performances of the instructor staff pre-
I also followed the purpose of use
theater as a propaganda medium, why
plays were staged that sharpened the consciousness of the class
owl intransigence, showing vigilant
the importance of petty-bourgeois aspirations and
the ways of monarchs, princes, the church and the bourgeoisie
capitalists to process in their own interests
the masses on the basis of religion, mi-
sticism and all kinds of perversions.

The studio supplied the following in-
scenarios: “Mtsyri” - Lermontov; "Ho-
"Zyain" - Nikitina; “Man” - Gorky;
“Tower” by TGastev, “Prologue” by him; "Tsy-
Ghana"—Pushkin. May Day program:
"Ioverheard these songs"—Kirillov; "Vos-
stanine" - Sadofiev, "Atonia" - his own,
“Poem from Poems” - his own, “Russia” - his own,
“Red Flowers”—Originalist, “In the Forest”—
his own, “Woman” - his own, “Towards an Uprising”
him. Plays played: “Red Corner”—
Volkova; “The Miserly Knight”—Pushkin; "Sav-
va“—Andreeva; “Death of Hope”—Geier-
Mansa; “Royal Barber”—Lunachar-
sky; “Forest”, “Wolves and Sheep”, “Grudovoy”
bread”, “Let it not warm”, “Marriage
Belugin" - Ostrovsky; "Philistines", "On
Day", "Children of the Sun" - Gorky; „Catastrophic
fa“—Dolla Gracia; “The Inspector General” - Gogol.

Theater studio of the Armory Za-
ox given stage productions—24,

Theater studio Zheleznodorozh-
of the Proletkult was given an openic
stops 93, :

Theater studio of the community club
stov ‚Proletary““ given stage directions
stops - 16,

Russian studios are considered by us,
as preparatory laboratories for prices
trawling studio. Due to the fact that the composition
district studios are mostly pre-
placed by fellow workers, comparatively
have played a lot of all kinds of games before
amateur performances, and, consequently,
who have internalized the negative aspects of everyone
betelschina, then the first task in classes
with them came the fight with this amateur
shina.

In all theater studios Prolet-
The cult consists of 246 people. instructors
9 people assistance of instructors - 10 people,

Music studio. Search Bureau
drives together those working to create new ones
proletarian musical motives and events
Raises new proletarian musical com-
positions. Until June 1st new works
created 7,

"International" - Comrade,
symphony orchestra;

“March of the Red Army” - Comrade. Polomsky
(to the words of the working poet Kochunov), for sym-
phonic orchestra;

March “Long Live the Proletariat” - Comrade
Vyazovsky, for symphony orchestra;

“Our prologue” - Comrade. Polomekogo (in’ words
Gasteva—“We have encroached”), for symphonic
sky orchestra;

“May Day Hymn” - Comrade. Vyazovsky (at
words of the poets Kirillov and Samobytnik); for
symphony orchestra and choirnew singing;

“Hymn of the Red Army” - Comrade. Morelli (at
words by the poet Kochukov), for choral singing;

“Tower” - comrade. Sharov (to the words of Gaste-
VA), for brass band,

The opera “Khozlin” is being prepared - Ltov, Polom-
Sky (based on Nikitin’s poem “The Master”).

The initial method of writing notes
new musical works with proleg-
Chinese content is still growing; studio members
reading one or another work
proletarian poet, explained in detail
its contents, all class classifications are indicated
features of the work and revealed
ilass ideology, and then proposed
attempts to identify the content of this program
productions by musical means, Sde
what they have submitted is verified by the Bureau team
searches and, according to the corresponding critical
raabore, accepted or rejected.

Symphony orchestra. The rehearsal has passed
titius - 150, concerts given - 60.

Brass band (from April 1st). Proshio
rehearsals—60, concerts given—24.

Orchestra of Chromatic Harmonies (from 1st
April). 60 rehearsals have passed, finalization has been given
certs-24.

orchestra of public (folk) in-
instruments (from March 1). The rehearsal went through
tions—90, 86 concerts given.

Chorus. Rehearsal-lesson passed—$0, given

poitsertov—80

Polomsky for

62 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

Orchestras and choirs are essential
’ means: 1) to demonstrate musical
valuable values of the past, 2) for demonstration
tions of achievements in the field of creating new
proletarian musical works;
in addition, these aircraft are considered,
as indispensable auxiliary tools in business
mastering the technique of musical art
in general,

Solo opera singing class. Given
lessons—150. Prepare for production by
staging the following musical
works: “Baikal”—from the motives of the convicts
jean; “The sun rises and sets,” words
Gorky; “The Voivode” - Rubinstein’s words
Turgenev; “Svalovstvo”—music. Cui nv words

Nekrasova; the first Russian opera "Mel-
nick-sorcerer, deceiver and matchmaker"—music Fo-
mine, words by Ablesimov; opera that composed
a whole revolution in the field of operatic writing
Niya, so tsait was shown for the first time
on stage there is a simple man-men, instead
stilted pseudo-classical characters,

we strive for stops of this kind
take the path to proletarian musical
drama, while using it for ideological purposes
class education of singers every given
this work as a theme for political
technical conversation that introduces understanding of tasks
G.K.P. For the purpose of performing geriatric
opera production, as such, so that it
the story is typical for proletarian music -
drama, we are the same as in theatrical
but dramatic works, were accepted as fundamental
new method—identification of the inner essence
works; for this to use
in the desired sense, the general operatic convention
ness, we strive for this condition
not as a shortcoming of the opera, but as its authenticity
nature, which can be used with skillful use
calling to extract the sum of feelings and meaning
more powerful than dramatic testra; for
this, our opera studios before
sing an opera, learn this piece
tion, assignment of dramatic ‘theatre, and
start the chain only when
Iepollya!" her forms are quite correct
drama theatre.

Total employees in the music studio
in music. tools and value—
1,024 people.

Fine Arts Studio, Dano
lessons—150. Done. slogan posters
I I, K. Sovetov, Ts, K. R. K. P., Gubkom and
Gubproletnult, according to the slogans of Universal Education, is not
division of commodity exchange and by works of production
Letarian poets - 970 pieces.

Work according to certain. inmmunietic
makes it possible for Chinese slogans to be voecized -
to indulge the artistic imagination of students
dist and communist correction, so
as a slogan, before starting to identify
the expression of its content by means of depiction
tempting qualifiers, it can be understood in more ways than one
from the point of view of the communist structure
life. We don't separate the process."
mastering technical skills in live
notes on the content of the work and the process of com-
Munnstic education through this. Our
student, no matter what he does for the given purpose,
first of all I have to ohhowl internally

No. 9—10

the content of this subject, and only
After this, she exercises on us in technology.
technically,

Experience has shown us that this method is not
just doesn’t stifle creative imagination
the artist, on the contrary, makes it deeper,
wider, lighter, in the sense of choice and mastery
learning technical techniques - self-reliance"
smarter and bolder.

At this time, our students are approaching
passionate about the artistic depiction of ideas -
the essence of each of the Soviet institutions
expectations, In the same order, students -
are going to work on depicting the ideological
essence of R.K.P. and Sh Communist

international, according to slogans specifically and
developed in a known sequence
Gubproletkult, which is for them and in agreement with
bathrooms © Gubernia Committee and Gubernia Executive Committee.

These posters will decorate the couples
political and Soviet organizations, which will reveal
is a permanent exhibition of proletarian
achievements in the field of painting and will serve
a powerful propaganda medium,

literary studio. Material collected
working writers for two collections. By
compared to other studios - literary -
Vaya is the weakest. Still not
not a single bright yes came out of the workers
formation, and, what is saddest of all, not a single
clearly aware of class characteristics
proletarian literature,

Studio sessions with working writers
are pronounced mainly by introduction
them into a course of class ideology. Not having mastered it
this, we will not proceed with further work.
bots, dance how to write all sorts of things
kind of poems for the sake of their form we do not
we find it necessary, especially since this
Too much time is wasted without us.
We want to produce only class-
proletarian literature and don’t think about

press Balmont, Bedym, Severyaniyam,

Tayakovsky, etc.

Circus studio. We salute the
circus workers: jugglers, acrobaton, gym-
nasts, riders, as exponents of courage,
dexterity, courage, grace and resourcefulness
news We will revive our practical efforts
we are focusing on using the circus for purposes
adapting it like a proletarian arenasky
silpra, laughter and agitation; why did you cut out
we hang out with the former plum part of the circus,
which must be reorganized and modified
changed in accordance with © our time,
special repertoire.

In addition, we consider the circus arena
ka, as a laboratory for the design of any
kind of expedient mass games, celebrations
nestv it. p.

Proletkult organized 4 and di-
stva; The anniversary of the founding of Kraspa
Army,—Anniversary Day of the Paris Com"
moons, - May Day, Farewell to willows
Front of the Communards,

May Day was a general o7-
why-exhibition of all achievements Prodet-
remote control All his devices worked
day on the square. Works of jelly and vobravi-
artistic arts were exhibited on the street
nah,
No. 9--10

This summer we are preparing our organizational
5

celebrate the celebration of proletarian culture. Plan
celebrations will be sent in advance
in the Central Committee of the All-Russian Council of Proletkult.

Children's Proletkult. Laboratory-semi-

boarding school, in the near future - boarding school,

where up to 50 children are gathered. age 8
up to 14 years of age who have discovered an undoubted t'a-
talent in the field of temptation,

Epi children grow up like the future
avant-garde in the construction of prolegarian culture
tours, because they are more flexible in their acceptability
material and more favorable in appearance
their soils for growing proletarian seeds
cultural culture is hard to find,

Soon, when we have organized
boarding school, we will arrange for the children from the mo-
so that she was an example
communotic construction of life, we
in the person of the children's Prolegult, we will have
one of the most perfect audiences!
Proletnult laboratory.

3 this time in Children's Proletkult
organized and raootalut studio: zoo-
body arts, literary (collected ma-
gerial for two issues of a children's magazine),
musical, theatrical and oratorical arts
arts; workshops: shoes, carpentry, handicrafts
efficient and intertwined,

In its works, Children's Proletkult
read before the children of the Tula fly-by
riev at the special meetings he collects
tah, thesethe rallies captured the deep interest
resom proletarian children, and they flock
on them in large masses of 8-4 thousand.

The work of the Children's Proletkult continues
under the direct leadership of Gub-
Proleskult and Gubernia Committee,

Tulsny Provincial Proletnult.

Exhibition of works by art students
school of the Rybinsk City Pro-
and letkult,

The exhibition was opened on June 4th and
until 18:10. During this time the deportation
visited by about 1,500 people, visited you-
headquarters for teachers and students of Soviet schools;
there were excursions from their district and others
(Poshekhonsky and Mologsky).

There was a display of drawings and sculptures about
150 ekamilar. The exhibition is divided into groups
I remember how the activities were conducted. Figures 1st and 2nd
troupes, in turn, are divided into departments:
1) drawings from life and 2) fantasy. On you-
headquarters was presented with a brief report on the work
school bots. For visitor feedback there was
a box was hung, up to 50 reviews were dropped into it
WWII, where among the various in enormous pain-
shinegve there are positive reviews sing:e-
mania, nair., “So that in work in mind
Modoli the worker was not forgotten,” th

On June 12, I visited the exhibition and detailed
examined by People's Commissar A.V. Lunachar-
skiy; he noted a number of things and between
We are looking for the work of a 46-year-old tailor, V. Is-
Polatova, which I recommended sending
in the Central Prolezkult, as a character-
work for an adult,
from the working class, this work is very
interesting in its elegance, simplicity and
general primitiveness. It clearly shows

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

63

new gift, which, despite the long
working life has not atrophied, although
has already resulted in such old and complete
forms that even schools should not change
or poison them.

At the exhibition a lecture was given on the
mu "Artistic education and education"
""

The school opened on the 16th of Virel, 1919.
About 80 people study in 9 groups,
attendance is about 50%). Before opening you-
rates were only 32 school days. Mate-
Free rials for school, Premises
tight; total |1 roomsa, into which © work-
the house includes from 15 to 20 people.

Ry'insny Gorodsnoy Proletnult,

Proletkult and extracurricular education
calling.

In order to clear up any misunderstandings,
places between Proletkults and Departments
out-of-school education, we publish the following
current resolutions:

Resolution of the State Commission
on Enlightenment from April 13, 1918

“The State Commission, having discussed the
about Proletkults, speaks out in favor of it,
that these organizations must exist
henceforth, strictly class and giving
their strength exclusively for the cause of development
purely proletarian, socialist pulpit
tours on a completely autonomous basis,
The Sonnet power takes upon itself the matter of wide-ranging
who familiarizes the proletariat, like everyone else
working population, with cultural gains
tours, aiming to further develop
its development in the socialist spirit."

Resolution of the Board of the People's Co-
Missariat for Enlightenment of June 6
1919

“Having discussed the issue of coordinating the work
external tgdel and roletiult, Quantity
legion of the People's Commissariat for Education
decided:

in Proletkult in the center and locally
money on your own with your own,
separate budget.

2. In order to coordinate the work in Na-
native Commissarnate for Education
given by the Section of Extracurricular Education,
which is included along with others
Departments and Proletkult,

8. Tanya sections are also created locally,
where there are proletnults, registered
rolls in the All-Russian Council Prolet-
cult."

People's Commissar L.V. „Tinanarekiy.

Members of the Board of the People's Commissariat
io Enlightenment:

Head of the Extracurricular Department

.N. K. Krupskaya.

Head of the Department of Proletarian Pul-

tours L.I. Lebedev: Polyansky.

Interesting material in this regard
gives an advanced statement to comrade. A. V. Lunvchar-
sky in No. 9-10 “People’s Enlightenment” aa
April-May 1919. :

We present some places from it.

and now the problem is posed
in a new light, (On the one hand, pro-

64

Legarial has not matured culturally.
He hasabout neg completely their ideologists or their
very few, none of them passed, hand in hand
heart, cannot say what’s new, for the sake of
the proletariat contributes the main interest
in those areas of philosophy and natural science,
which, of course, will be brought into gar-
Moniya with high proletarian pockmarks
sociology and economics, but in whom else
Proletarian thought worked little. Than bu-
Is art in the hands of the proletariat? That's why
there are only hints in the works, however,
often very talented, those first la-
drains of prolegarian poetry, which are more
they will now distribute a complete
clouds and lightning, thunderous sky.

The proletariat, therefore, needs
continue the work of producing a proletarian
culture in order to contribute
possible by a wider river in the upcoming
the future system is triumphant everywhere
socialism perhaps more. certain
values that carry a working meaning
part"

`

PROLETARIAN. CULTURE.

№910

“Because of this,” the author continues,
“I will defend the real proletariat”
completely independent, even from, co-
of the veterinary state, an independent laboratory
constructive construction of its own special cultural
tours. Let the proletariat" independently
overestimates everything that is given to him, let him
proletaria" is looking for new forms in the field
art, new methods in the field of science.

Howl maybe, Proletkults are not always clear
understand their tasks, perhaps sometimes
they carry out parallel work with work
Soviet authorities. You never know; your advice -
Russian organs get confused with each other,
interdepartmental disputes cannot be avoided
ny, but it doesn’t occur to anyone,
that from the collisions of any two
houses, for example, Sovnarkhola © Komprodom,
it follows that one of them must be eliminated
no. For Proletkult there is absolutely
a unique place. I fully supported
iravo Iroletnult on a special existence-
tion and on the pirokoy state vubsi-
"division".

Bibliography.

Mich. Gerasimov. "'3a60d spring'." Otihi.
Publication of the Moscow Proletkult. 1919
94 pp. Price 4 rub.

Mich.Gerasimov. "Children under fire." Ras-
tales. Publication of the Moscow Proletkultn.
1919 144 pp. Price 7 rubles.

Mich. Gerasimov is well known among Russian-
ski workers. His name was found in the petro-
city collections of proletarian writers
published under the direct editorship
M. Gorky back in 11a. From now on
Gerasimov has grown significantly, determining
poured over and came closer to the proletarian flows
Zhivaniam.

if in the collection “Spring Calls”, published
nom in 1918, but where the things were collected, written
sledding, the old look still shines through
to the factory, as if to a dungeon in which it withers
life, where it is stuffy for a person, where death is
Rith and guards people, then in the “Spring Plant”
there blows a new spirit brought by the mighty
proletarian revolution. Revolution like
Spring, renewed factory life:

“Spring day, what a wonderful day”
The warrior descended to earth,
Granite and iron valve
Bloomed like a pearl rainbow.
Where the saddened princess

Usha languished in the tower,

s to the temple smilingly and melodiously
Suddenly turned my prison."

And the poet loves, passionately loves the renewed
a vibrant, ebullient, spring plant.

“I love factory pipes with strings,
The whistle that woke up the copper with steam“...
“I love to forge, I am strong and young,

At the mouth of fiery furnaces“...

“How I love you, spring one,
Spark Factory"

'The new plant does not lose its beauty and
among the rustles of sadly wandering autumn.

“The autumn evening bitterly hunched over
Kneeling garden

And how much unforgettable sorrow
In the straw wrinkled huts.
Driven by clouds of fog

Aspen is crying in a round dance.

Only brightly on the chest of the mound
A cheerful sparkling plant."

The poet glorifies the plant, its hammers and hammers
and blanks, its pipes and beeps. The plant is—
source of new life, be born in the storm
and the flames of the October revolution, in the background

“Everyone kicked off with a fiery button accordion
Forging bells, red strings,
A thunder-opened titan,
"The dawn of the tribune"

And the poet is convinced that
"Red Flag of the Commune"
The world will be on fire."

To this plant, to the “cast iron font”, for “fishing”
sweet singing" people are coming "from the huts solo-
permanent settlements”, it forgets “pre-clonally - nuchal border“, and the soul of each
the newcomer is doused with a “ringing shaft”
rebellion"

In this isinroylamine plant, everyone
the newcomer merges into the collective - “we”,
This team is young and strong; his body—
Jedeso, his muscles are steel. The poet with confidence
emphatically states:

“We will take everything, we will know everything,
its depth to the bottom...
“They are dressed with the winged dawn,

We will not take off in audacity,
A soggy comet
Let's cut through the milky ways,"
№'9—10

These basic motives are heard in all departments.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 65

‚ V. Drrnerarovsny, “Workers' Village”.
G: I am 0 M.

lah collection; “Spring Plant”, “No.
flowers", "Lyrics" and "Surf of Machines", all
this is a hymn to the plant, a symbol of the future life.

Otikh Gerasimova is imaginative, there are interesting
forest rhyme. Feels confident and
the precision of the verse, but sometimes this precision
will be recoded into mannerisms, into imitation of new
intelligent poets who are the essence
verses are seen mostly, and sometimes
entirely, in his appearance, in his form, than desperately
sti avrazhen is the author of this collection.

In all verses one feels solemn
high spirits. The poet looks at
peace with delight and hope, His “soul is weighty”
Noah is dressed in a radiant golden canopy,” “mysterious
a natural breath touched the petal
his soul" and

"From the ashes of sleepy oblivion
Rising like the sun, inspiration
“Above the darkness of our native fields.”

And the poet says that it is sweet for him to “fire-

instantly soar up like a rocket and burn out.”

The stories “Flowers Under Fire” were written
at the beginning of the first year of the World War. All
plots, with the exception of the last story
“Chrysanthemums” are somehow connected with the war
No, their plot is not complicated. All the heaviness is in those
experiences that the volunteers experienced
ry, and in particular the author himself, sitting in the trenches,

going" on reconnaissance, wandering through the destroyed,

French villages and "t, p.

All things indicate that Gerasimov
perfectly masters the form, but collected under
one cover stories lose part of their
artistic charm: one feels
about the forms and monogony of experiences.

The author is observant; the most despise-a fact that no one else will even notice,
evokes certain experiences in his soul
vania; but these sentiments are shallow and sometimes
they talk about the sick and nervously refined,
intelligent attitude to life, so
that you forget that stories belong
worker's pen

Like poetry, rasenases are written in
raised in a solemn manner; not felt
immediate beauty; on the contrary, vi-
You can see how the author hones his style, different
creates epithets and complicates comparisons in
pursuit of grace of form.

In the ruby dawn, in the speaking grass, in
golden straw, silky rustling and
emitting a sweetish smell of bread, in red
poppies of blood, in large crying gia-
zakh lilac color ‘with a hidden quiet
sorrow, in the ribbons of fog, in its smoky
waves and stone patterns feel the speed
more skill than. authentic art
creative creativity,

The collection is nothing new. adds to
artistic appearance of Gerasimov. He
retained his ‘interest as a certain
moment to the personal life of Augor, as a document
ment—evidence of how strongly the drilling
zhuaz literature with its moods and
leads the proletarian onto the wrong path.

be a collection of modern times
well made and not very expensive. r

Proletarian Culture, No. 9-0.

r Span-
cult. 1919 78 pp. Price 3 rubles.

V. Aleksandrovsky, “North”. Poetry. Publishing house
publication of the Moscow Proletkult, 1919, 33 pp.
Price 2 rub.

About the poems of V. Alexandrovsky it was necessary
speak more than once in connection with the characteristic
proletarian magazines, where they met and
his poems.

These collections are nothing new x the same
They do not add to their judgment of the poet.

V. Aleksandrovsky undoubtedly has
poetic gift, but one feels that the poet
works little on his overall development,
over your technique. There is no depth in it
reverent observation, the poet stands as if
aloof from developing events, he
only an observer and an observer without disinterest
cold, cold, although with clearly defined
revolutionary - communist simia-
tiyami. The poet's soul is hidden from the reader.

Like othersproletarian poets, V.
And the other one is “Cyclonic”
year of the proletarian revolution,

“Where the weak groans smoldered,
The ore foamed with blood...
“Where Molotov blows splash
And the songs of the gears flow...
“It will burn out new laws
For fiery Labor."
He feels like he has
„New bells, ,
other calls
°Are born in the soul
At a fabulous hour."

The creator of new life - the proletarian is depicted
with the following stroke:

“The body is a flexible spring,
Passion is the flame of the forge,
I took it from the car
Be persistent in everything.
I am gifted with violent strength,
The hammer is a toy for me...

Simultaneously with these enthusiastic
motives break through notes of despondency, skepticism
ticism, old, pre-revolutionary view
to labor and factory:

"Tomorrow obedient
The rates will go up
The factory is dusty and stuffy
Crumples the petals...

In another poem dedicated to
to the weaver girl, the poet expresses the same sentiments
buildings in these words:

“For your arrival with scarlet flowers

I'll sneak away your corner.

Let them dispel with vepty dreams

The sadness that the machine brings to you during the day.”

And in this melancholy despondency
the poet is waiting for an evening that will inspire the soul;
zhi'an is not so much an achievement for him,
how much “one aspiration” and, sitting in the twilight,
huts that “clothed the corner in bloom,” he
asks:

“Oh, slow down time, your hasty running,”

These motives, alien to the proletariat, are clearly
act in contradiction with others
the poet's moods.

66 PROLETARIAN' CULTURE.

This consistency of mood explains
It is clear, as we indicated above, insufficient
political maturity, on the one hand,
and the influence of modernist + intellectual
‘poets, which had a special impact
in the second collection “North”.

"North" starts off rather strange
in words: p

“All minutes are filled with poison,

I go to the cross voluntarily.”...

“I am wounded by a dark incident,

Ironized the will in me,

I will accept suffering humbly“... *

“Without suffering there is no Sunday.”

there is some kind of mixture of Christian movement

greatness with Tolstoyism, with Dostoevschina, in
which were talked about in different ways
the purifying role of suffering. It is unclear and
10,wow this is good. a poet whose soul
“Enchanted by a wonderful fairy tale,” all the minutes
were filled with poison. Where is the girl?
our victories, our achievements, our
revolutionary creativity that stirred up
all the labor elements of the country?

Among this incomprehensible pessimism, the poet,
as if in a moment of enlightenment, he cries out:
"Laugh! I'm rude and impudent:

In life he was wildly brave.
I won’t ask: open it!—
I will break the limit myself.”

`And then, weakened by the explosion

energy, the powerless and weak-willed man raves:
“Share with me the winter sadness,
“My joys are filled with suffering, zagluigi,
Sadness will be the only mistress,
The pain of hearts is a beautiful dream...

On the one hand, the poet declares that he
“the ice and blizzards will melt away,” on the other hand
Ron, immediately adds:

“You get used to everything over time:
And to money, and to ice, and to fire.
'Ever burns me on the polar fire
And ‘the past that I keep’.

V. Aleksandrovsky, if he does not realize his
“duality, then he feels it,” he himself
asks himself; }

“Why did I go north?
Why did you perceive the blizzard?
“I dreamed of spring sowing,
About flowers in the southern meadow."

The poet himself tries to give an answer to the question.
his nagging question, he writes;
ri of this flow of suffering...
)part of it is to burn medicinally in the struggle...

In this northern snowy combustion
I love it. I pray to you"

In this vague answer one senses again
some kind of mysticism that is not reconciled with
proud statements in other verses,
example:

I got used to it and lost my body,
My path is a risk

But I reach spiraea

And I see a fiery disk."

These lines deserve attention
another reason.

Firstly, the proletariat ‘develops its
fight not on the theory of risk, but on the basis
th in accordance with a certain social

No. 90

historical provisions; secondly, when
Why are there unknown spirals and a fiery disk?
The latter gives off the spirit of that “representative”
nogo “temptation”, which is their own. disks,
spirals, square heads, etc.
absurdity adorned red Russia:

The collection “North” came out later. Sbornino
"Workers' Village". This speaks of some
na revolution, about some kind of brokenness and
author's disappointment. And if these dangerous
new moods will completely cover V. Alek-
Sandrovsky, he is like a poet for the proletariat,
will die

But we must believe that the young soul will be able to

‘cope with disappointments’

and doubts, and the poet will really be
"bold and bold"

In dedication to the poet-fighter V. Aleksandrov-

sky writes in “Working Settlement”:
“Behind is the blood of those slain in the darkness,
Ahead is a golden flower.
Scatter your sultry signs,
Poet!

And we want one thing: let him quit
his “north” and will return to the “workers’ village”,
to scatter your “sultry signs” in
creativity of a new life. -

V. P-y.

Alexander Pomorsky. “The Flower of Rebellion*.”
Poems. Publishing house Rograd. Proletkult.
1919 32 pages. Price 1 ruble.

In contrast to V. Aleksandrovsko-
mu, A. Pomeranian is predominantly
to the poet of experiences, Every event,
every phenomenon, in one way or another, affects
the poetic feeling that underlies it serves to
him an impetus for creativity, causing a whole
range of moods. The poet sees the lamplighter
and, watching as the streets light up
lantern after lantern, this makes it so ordinary
This phenomenon is transferred to social
struggle and grow accordingly
crushes your mood: 2

``Ribbon entry number and long
'From the movement of the hand, ,
Like marvelous rubies, +.
The horns light up,

They are fogs. the darkness is not scary,
A wet night is not scary."

Here is a poem, “At the Bridge.” The bridge is not
has nothing to do with the poet’s feelings,
He could survive them even at the edge of the forest, and
yourself in a wretched apartment, caught somewhere
howl, in a working settlement, It is possible that due to
any capricious association, the poet, walking
across the bridge, remembered what he had once experienced, and
his awakened creativity, taking advantage of the surrounding
oppressive situation, organized the experience
entry into the lines entitled “At the Bridge”.

the poet's thief p ‚as if unwrapped-
the ongoing class struggle, as well as the phenomena
standing outside of it. Morning, evening, night, spring,
autumn, train, bell ringing, sunshine
resonate in the poet's soul. He feels them
and worries. -Sometimes the poet’s moods are entirely induced by
give with the collective feeling of the proletariat,
as, for example, in a beautiful poem
"Funeral of the Tribune"; sometimes it's the other way around
they make him related to the old world or talk-
ryat 0b his imitation:

No. 9—10

“Woe to us!” What are tears to us!..
If only it were you and me!..

The proletariat surrendered the love of two hearts
ke to the archive; he knew the highest love,
love ‘for oppressed humanity, I. mutually
The intimate love of two beings should not separate
To push into the background the grief and tears of others.
Poem:

“I go out into the golden field,
And I sit down in thought by the graves...
breathes the breath of peace into the world,
the world rested in the sunshine...
Just me, sad and gloomy,
I will not part with sadness and longing."

breathes Lermontov's mood; even
more than that, it is a bad imitation
Lermontov, whose pessimism is so alien
to the working class. The proletariat, of course, is not
only plucks roses in his struggle, but often
experiences painful wounds, but they are not
surprised by his revolutionary impulse,
The poet pays a lot of attention to the city. Go-
the genus is not only a monster, a dragon. The city lives
“golden colors, fiery fairy tales, with
a stormy sea of noise." True, the city squeezed
proletarian "in an iron vice", but the poet
full of conviction that the city will be conquered:

“Be silent, tyrant crowned with fools,
You will be ours. Before the mournful slaves
You yourself will fall as a humiliated slave."

A. Pomorsky is a poet of his own: spontaneous
soul, and this will make him stand out sharply among
their comrades.

To the best things from the rhythm side you need
include: "Funeral of the Tribune", "Bells"
and "Train".

Pomeranian poems are not distinguished by their imagery.
hope, live in them and meet beautiful
ny lines, as, for example, in a poem
“The city of Somov is beautiful in spring.”

if Gerasimov's verse is clear, minted, and
one can feel its finishing, then the Pomeranian verse
sky, despite the beautiful and brave
rhymes, sometimes spontaneously chaotic and demanding
polishing, which the author apparently lacks
patience is melting,

Some "Flowers of Rebellion" will fade
and will be forgotten, and some will remain
always in my memoryetariat and

“Like the alarm bell of future beauty

In the crimson glow of rebellious excitement
Rainbow flowers will spread,
Freedom and revival! V. P— ii.

"Proletkult". Edition Ekhkaterinoslav-
Provincial Proletkult. No. 1, 2. 1919
Price 9 rub. 50 kopecks

The idea of ​​proletarian culture. breaks through
its way wherever it arises
Soviet power. As soon as Ukraine was liberated
was sick of the Hetman, as in it here and there
Proletkult organizations began to emerge
and their organs.

Organ of the Yekaterinoslav Proletkult
testifies to the undoubted and deep
understanding of our tasks and paths, In places,
True, there are vague and unscientific
definitions and formulations, like that,
that “culture is the mirror of humanity

` NORLETARIAN CULTURE. 67

progress"; or “literature is an echo of life”
howl of reality,” but they do not obscure
the correctness and clarity of our foundations"
new ideas. “Proletarian culture,” writes
Comrade Boris, - must be the soul of labor, breathing -
walk and create “to the accompaniment of mo-
trays“, in unison with the swelling bellows
machine production... Its political
the worker must consolidate the victory in
certain cultural work. He tested
there is a need to make it like this 0b-
together, so that in the forms of a new culture
all his experiences and experiences were included.
The working class must create a science that
heaven would be the harmony of labor; art,
which organizes his life... With the reign
nium of communism proletarian culture
will transform into the highest form of the inevitable
historical process—into the culture of society
human."

“New literature emerging from the depths
and the depths of life itself, being ‘in fact
with its full-voiced echo, will be able to fulfill
my main job is to be an educator
and the organizer of the class that created it, A
from this literature literature will grow
future, universal and extra-class
vaya, - literature that will be the crown
human achievements,” writes Comrade. Vi-
Rin, complementing Comrade. Boris.

The article by Comrade is also interesting. Ostrovsky about
proletkulte; In it he dissociates himself from
„all kinds of refsorm and kulturtregeretva“, found out
understands the uniqueness of proletarian culture,
emphasizing the organizational beginning of the new
science and art. The author is aware that
Letarian culture has not yet been created, but
the red banner of Proletkult "is already proud
hovers over a world mired in lies and measures
Schansky vulgarity", Proletvult - "this
the word is already rushing into the world; we already hear
its rumblings"

The author is wrong when he reproaches Pushkin for
worked for many years on “Eugene: Onegi-
nym“, no. devoting a single minute of your life
miner We must not forget those conditions and
those persecutions, among which there were
write to Pushkin. In addition, miners
in the person of the Decembrists, he sent a special
message, ending with the words:

“The heavy shackles will fall,
The mommies will collapse, and there will be freedom
“You will be greeted joyfully at the entrance,
And the brothers will give you the sword."

Of course, this is not what I wanted. would you hear-
to attack the strict critic from Proletkult,
but there is no need to lose historical perspective -
you, and in its light these lines speak of
in a lot of ways,

Poems are uninteresting. There is no prose. Protocols
boring, the last of them are not for the reader
have no value and should not be placed
should have.

No. 2 is dedicated to May Day. Articles on-
written in the usual, template style, and then
it was possible to cover the events from the point of view
proletarian culture.

In general, these shortcomings are not
make it difficult to assert that the magazine is interesting
and for the workers, the masses need EKkaterinoslav.

5*
68

"Proletkult". Westmich of the Teher Council
Proletkulna. No. 1-8. 1919 Price 5 rubles.

Journal of Tvereny Proletkult in its own way
type rather suits those magazines that
which should be published by the External Affairs Departments
school education. In the magazine, and even
in the first book there are no articles clarifying
foundations of proletarian culture, except two
insignificant, of which one is also
is polemical in nature. But whole
nine pages are devoted to the issue of reorganization
nization of higher education; there you can
read about obstetrics, childhood diseases
m even about soil science and met a long time ago
outdated formulations: “History of Philosophy”
phys and sciences", "General teachingabout matter and
energy." The latest science has already established
that between matter and energy it is possible to
put an equal sign: one goes into
other.

An interesting report by Novotorzheky Prolet-
cult. it shows the work of the provincial
proletkult with all the light and dark
sides of reality. Comrades themselves
great. are aware of their shortcomings and clearly
they write about them and talk about them. “It smells like old times.”
There is also no sense of scope, of a rush from
boldness. Tasks stay within scope
yesterday,” the report says. All
this is, of course, sad, but still’ work
must be carried out. Awareness of one's shortcomings
in the end it will help to reach a wider
the road. It is often worse where
comrades act with an air of infallibility
my name. ivii.

In the categories; "in the Tver province" and
according to the IRTR of Russia” material has been collected,

not directly related to Prodet-

cult. In these departments the reader will meet

both with preschool education and schools

letters, and © union of crippled warriors, and

< many others, All this information is interesting

us, but in our magazines they bring into
ananimation of the reader, especially the underdeveloped one,
the chaos that will have to be faced in the future
fight ourselves.

There is fiction and poetry in the magazine, but
they do not stand out from the range of ordinary things.

The magazine has 68 pages and was published with satisfaction
but good; but in its content it
spab and in many ways inferior to our others

. magazines: p. Rudonop.

"Labor and Creativity". Omo Weekly
Lena Proletkult. No. 1, 2. 1919 Price
3 rubles.

the journal is primarily
literary. On 3); it is filled with prose and
poetry; articles that would infuriate
to the working masses, what is proletarian
culture and what its paths of development are, no.

The department “Forge of Poets” is run by an unorganized
lowly, ineptly. Without saying a single one
words about the essence of proletarian poetry, about

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 9—0

its features, and without even opposing
her poetry of bourgeois society, Department for-
fills its pages with reflections on
sonnets and unnecessary at first
little technical detailsical nature. , th

An attempt to connect proletarian creativity
connection with folk song is untenable 6
theoretical point of view and gives
rim, already outlived by populism. Author
admonishes the Smolensk proletarians in the following
following expressions:

“First of all, a poet must learn from
that unknown team that
“We are called the people.” We are replacing the foggy
and a vague sociological concept
“people” to another, precisely defined concept
I mean, “the proletariat.”

"Poevia labor, veche Soviet
Earth, will learn a lot from this ancient
source (folk song), where he will see his
reflection." From this quote it is clear that the author
does not distinguish poetry prodetarekoy from poetry
labor Under the concept of labor poetry
poetry is suitable on a par with the poetry of the worker
peasantry, small artisans and druts
exloatable population groups; we are
working poetry due to various theoretical
s00b ykh more than once in
in our magazine, we highlight it especially.

The article “What is Proletkulg” also
not enough. wealthy. |

Poems should not have been published in the magazine
and prose belonging to intellectuals.
There is nothing worthwhile in the verses
B. Verkhoustinsky “The Rulers”, not the sound “For-
Cloudy Ostriches“ T, Nemchinova.

Didn’t fully realize his task and scientifically
ny Department; who puts lectures in a row
with public issues on issues
medical and sanitary.

This task must be carried out by the Department
scrap of public education. The task of Pro-
letcult in this area boils down to how
says the resolution of the All-Russian Conference
tions, to the following:

1) to a systematic re-evaluation of scientific
a lot of material with_ collectively - labor
points of view;

2) its systematic presentation is
in response to the conditions and needs of
summer work, both everyday and
revolutionary, b

and 3) mass dissemination of scientific
knowledge in such a transformed form.

This same issue is addressed in No. 5 on-
our magazine article by A. Bogdanov “About the pro-
Letarian University." She is pre-
red addition to the report and resolution -
tions of the conference,

Smoyensky's first attempt failed
comrades, but let's hope that in the future

y, and

Well, maybe not right away, Smolensk residents are not

they will take the right road,
and I,. village Rudonop.

The editors of the journal ask you to send them work journals and collections for review.
’ proletarian writers and poets.

Publisher -
All-Russian Soyet Flight. N.-Pr. Organizations.

Editor—
Editorial Nolialegy.

1

No.

‚ Printing house of T-va I. D, Sytia, Patvitsiaya st., 606. building,

|

/

"PROLETARC CULTURE".

From the editor.-—In the name of “Proletkult”, V. Polyanemiy.—,Prolet"
1918, July. CULT" - organ of prolet, amateur performances, V. Kerzhentsev. - Prolota -
=—^—:——— riat and creativity, F, Kalinin.-—What is ‘proletarian voevia?
A. Bogdanov.—On the repertoire of the workers’ theater, V. Bogushevsny.—Toward the All-Russian Council. conference
k..pr, slave, org. Organ. Aliya “Prolegkulta”, Art. Krivtsov.—Bibliography:
"Red Light". E. Kh, - “Nlamya”. "Creation". 4. O.—“Coming.” P, L.
No. 2. Nationalism and socialism. V. Lolyansny.—Our criticism. Art. 1st. 4. Boeda-
July. *8.—Workers' club. F. Kalinin.—The ideal was brought up. 4. Bogdanov, —To the convocation
-—==: All Russia. conf. prol. k.-pr. organization, Abstracts of reports: Revolution and
cultural tasks of the proletariat. V. Polyansny.—Nwuna and the working class. 4. Bogdaniv.—.
roletariat and art. 4, Lunacharsky.—Ileals. bring up a socialist
N. Ulyanova (N. Krupspaya). - Jelly Messiah. V. Kirillov—Funeral. A. Pomorsky
E work. 4, Laste.—Chronicle of “Proletnult”: Second, conf, Petrogr, “Proletnult”,
‚I.—In the provinces. Art. Kriotsov.—Bibliography: Literature. Almanac. V.P.-—
K. Timiryazev. Red Banner, A.O.—Izvestia Moskov. Prolet, Univ., O.D. .
; No. 3. ry: bochey y her Po. PI and De yy
gun work. Art. Ivtsov, Nlassovy Theater. K. Malinin - To the convocation
August. All-Russian A. prol. her. organizations, Abstracts of reports: Proletarsky
club St. Kribtsov.—Representation norm and work plan of the conference. Organ. Bureau.-==
Chronicle of the roller cult": In the provinces? St. Krietsov. - Bibliography: A. Bogdanov.
"Red Vneoda" and "Engineer Manny". S, D.-J. Terso. Celebrations and songs of the French
revolution, T. R. - Two reviews. A.O.—From the editor.
No. 4. Tev. N. Levin. V. Polyansky. —Methods of labor and methods of cognition. A. Bogda-
September is new—The path of proletarian criticism and noevia by A. Gastev. F, Kalinin, -
r "Labor" and productive work in the new school. V, Polyan-
skiy, -What a tobacco club should be. N.` Krupekaya.—Versussian Union of Workers
writers. V, Ignatov.—Towards the convocation of the All-Russian Assembly. conf. prol. k.-pr. organizations. Abstracts
reports: Workers' cooperation and proletarian cultural construction, N. Vasilevsky. —
Spring bud. Song about iron. Poems, M. Gerasimov.—Khropika “Proletkult”: Moscow:
`Proletkult'. Report.—In the province. Art. Krivtsov. —Bibliography: a
I. L. “Flame”, A. O.—“Literature. Appendix.” No. 1. V. G.—“Creativity,” A. 0.—V. Kiril.
fishing, Poems. L. T.—V. Fritsche. Proletarian poetry. V. G.
No. B. Year of the proletarian dictatorship. 4. Iolyanoky.—Ideology of production.
women: © Kalinin, — Proletarian University, A. Bogdanov, — Organization
r literary creativity. V. Kerokentsev. - Perval All-Russian. conference,
Oleg cult.-enlightenment organizations. V, Kunavin.—Resolutions of the conference—Chronicle
"Proletkult": In the provinces. Art. Krietsov.—Bibliography: “Gorn.” V, Nolyaneniy.—
In the storm and flame." V. P-ii.—"Wedding vestments", 4, O.--"From the kindergarten diary",
E. Eronekaya, - “The Crucible*, V. G. - “The Coming Culture”. P, /. b
in No. 6. International revolution and proletarian culture. V. Ker=
1910 `Fovral of the Okenetsi.--About the idea of pogy. F. Kalinin. - Next questions. V. Po-
This is a Hebrew, a Lansky.— Methods of work of “Proletkult”, no. Kerzhentsoo.—
I practice. 7. Sedel nikov. —Ppan of the organization “About Letkult”.--Iredmestya. Poem.
M. Rubinitein.— Chronicle of “Npoletkult:” In the provinces, Art. Kriatsov—Proletauskie
cult, - enlightenment, organizations .-- Bibliography: “Proletarian collection”, V. Polyansky. ——“Vegt-
nickname of life." V, Kunavin, - “The Coming-Culture*.” P. those “Open-snout Plant”, 4. O.—&. Ma-
Lashkin, “Muscles”. 4. O,—S, Teenin, Preobrazhevie. No. G.--P. Oreshin.` „Krasleeping
Rus'." V. G.-S, Sredinviy. "Fundamentals of newspaper business." M, M.—“Zarovo Vavodov”,
V. Polyansky — “The World and Man” I. L.
No. 7-3 Light culture and Sopet cultural work. A. /unacharsky, Nashi
April-May.  For the path, V. Polyanekiy.—Essays on organizational science, A. Boe-
AE: Godnov about the professionalism of workers in art. F, Kalinin-—0 pro-
professionalism, V, Shle’nee - Collective creativity2v. theater, V. Kereyuentsev.—About futurism
meh. F, Kalinin.—Poetry of the Soviet province. In, Lolyantsy.—, “Iretz of Art,” Verse.
V. Kirillov.—Aviators. Discussion A, Shlyapnikov: - Iconic Charter of the Proletkult Club,
@ssross. Sov. Proletkult.-— Chronicle,.Proletkult”; 3 provinces, - Instructors
courses. Art. Krivtsov, - Conferences, - Reports. - Bibliography: A. Sidorov. - Revolution
and art!vo', S. D., K.-Zalevsky. —,,Art and’ about letar iat“*. Si, Krietsov..-—Sinner,
Stories, L. Rudokop.—V, Ignatov. "Wedding party". 11. Rudonop.— “Beeps,”
V. G.— “Our tor n*..V. N—ii.— ““Quas morning.” A. O |
r No. 9-10. Proletarian › culture and its critics. F. Kalinin. — Essays on organi”
June-July 3 tion nzuki. St., 2nd. A. Bogdanov - Ch, Darwin and K. Marx.
—————— Ts. Timiryazee —Knowledge in the light of history. V. P cue, ——Rost Prolet
nulta. O. Rainin,—On the identities of proletarian culture, A. Gastev,—On the trends of the gro-
letarian culture (answer to Gestev)— 4. Bogdanov, About provincial proletarian uniger-
sites—A. Bogdanov d Toward the closure of the proletarian university.— Proletkult Chronicle:
In the province. O. Rainin.—Reports.—Bibliography: M. Gerasimov, “Spring Plant” and
“Let’s arrange the flowers,” L. I.—3V; Aleksavdroveky. “Workers’ Village” and “Square.” V. I-i.--
A. Pomorsky. ., Poststavia Flowers”, J. 1/-i.—, Proletkult,” 4. O,” “Proletkul”,
P. Rudokop.—, Work creativity’ *, 17. Miner.