x ‘I r)
I have |
u to KALACH
At }
and ‚No.

with

MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
(CONTENTS;

RV. Paltisniy, Where are we going?

A. Lunacharsky: Iduala of young adult aesthetics

4. Bogdanov charki’ orkhanllanionno in vauki, St. Z-ya
M. Sliii Proletarianization of science
f:`Nalinin methods of work in ›Irolelkudiza
# M. Smith (76 study of labor production
M.F. 2. indications '
im Kladbimellaronozovo etih
Chronicle 3 Lroletkultich. Grbldetyunskrasnoy im b sir!
VINNIE No.
bibliography. samobyaiik By krusny zpamomem A: Momfin
Ravovei, Go Iechiev, Evening willows Vamakhya
and no. Lopov: Rassvadi Pu Gyakhomirov, “Red Bridge”
Coupon. "The emergence of relaria and ry 0" god
Gorteya. cIscoric zalernyalizu Agroglanen

Naslepatsav: Course of poitic economically oh

]

th

< No. 12.

Doctor 1919 | .

STATE. PUBLISHING HOUSE.
MOSCOW,
PUBLIC.

Workers of all countries, unite!

to%

`

no

Proletarian Culture:

MONTHLY MAGAZINE. n%>
Organ of the Center, Committee of the All-Russian Council of Propetcult. 484

Editorial office and office address: Mosnva, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 26-30;
Reception with the editorial secretary daily from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. day.

December. _ _1919. g.

No. 11-12,

CONTENTS: Kula we ilem, V. Polyansky.--Pachala proletareka ebthetics:
A. Lunacharsky. -- Essays on organizational science, Art. 3rd. A. Bogdanov, - Fly-
ria spiders, M. Smith, - On the methods of work in Proletkults. F, t}
Execution of labor pnocesses. No. Smith. -- Cemetery of steam locomotives. quiet ‚3
#2 readings. M. n +Prolegkulta”, In Prodetkuaty. 0. S.—Iroyaet-
cult - red army, no. 0, - 0’ work of Tambov Prolezhkult n Krasnaya
lrmii. V.K, = In provision; Bibliography: About life. "Under the Terrible Banner"
German", V, Polyansky" - No. Loptin, "Dawn". V, P-oiy.-- G. Nechaev, “Evening _
peni", V, I-— ii, "Vamahi". I, O.V., Poiov, Rasovaem. 4..0.- I, Tikhomirov,
"Zkraenyi, March." A. 0, -G, Kupev. "The war of radish and faith to I.T., =
Ch Pauly and I. Stopanov, Kufe

& y G; Gortor. “Historical materialimm”. I, .7.—A.
iolytic homomomim, TG, 3; V. 41. FI

> 1 "U. and

r

‚Where are you going?dress you

The struggle for a new culture is a struggle for a new future and new content.
life. No. MB

At the dawn of bourgeois society, this struggle grew into a ‘universal
a problem whose resolution led to the creation of capitalism.
way of life. ‘ ZI And you

Under the Red name of “freedom, brotherhood and jealousy” the revolutionary
its late 18th and early 19th centuries directed its activity to 600-
protection of the human person from exploitation by certain
groups and institutions of society, the sides of ideology in the form of legal and
moral consciousness, in the form of philosophical and religious problems about the universe,
about the purpose of a person and his relationship to the world. ^ ‚cat

° But the bourgeoisie was not able to resolve these issues. And before us

still stands the question of the Heinen youth: .. SCH TB 6st people? Where from
did he come? Where will he go?“ b „and

In the 'light' of liberal-democratic philosophical and sociological
systems, the state and its institutions are no more ‘as the basis for the life of an individual
noah personality. The tasks of the state are to collect the individual wills of theft and theft ->
to renew the ‘order,’ directed towards the co-chairmanship and regulation of the world’ eti-
I understand the human voices. From this atomistic view of Gobu-
It naturally followed ‘and naturally’6 the human right to independence, ‘vg9 From.
some ekbnluatatsam from the side of ‘forks alien to him’; "As with nature, so
and before the law all people are equal; every member of society has a natural
the right to satisfy his individual interests, as long as he is in his
desire to follow the dictates of nature’, ‘reason. | $a

This theory, of course, did not lead to a solution to the problem of ‘emanoia’
tions of Man. She’ simply simply established equality between people in their struggle

1.
2 ‚_ ‚PROLETARIAN CULTURE. Mm

for 6800 NOSADEPENDENCE; Zv '8v06 Enjoying the blessings of life, back no.:
by nature itself and by individual groups of society. True, this theory
I broke the feudal society that every person is born with.
predestined for a certain position in society:feveyazhe or slave-
However, it did not eliminate actual inequality, and even more, it

y;

did not establish equal conditions for struggle. = - ;

When in bourgeois society, as in feudal society, the
wealth and poverty, capitalist and proletarian, rulers and ruled,
liberal democratic ideology recognized this as natural
an order arising “not from the evil will of people, but entirely determined
by nature itself, +^ „. No. `B" m

If against the background of this inequality. competition among members of the general
ties, then this competition is a simple competition, and besides, it
free; thanks to it, the greatest values are created, which are
artistic expression of human creative power; besides, to these
values are open to everyone, since everyone is equal both before the law and before
morality.

‚ ‘Freedom of liberal culture, aimed at having an independent
personality ‘a certain amount of goods, turned out to be available only to non- |
‘to a significant minority and, moreover. about the vast majority of labor
of the masses of the people exploited by the minority,\

o Freedom was in the hands of the ruling classes; whose purpose in life
a thirst for power and domination appeared, and only the
exploited masses, but also the entire emerging cultural way of life.

Man has become identified with the quantity of goods; and these benefits in the form of trade,
industrial, & now financial capital, acquired that oppressive power
power, which previously, especially in feudal society, was attributed to the forces
heavenly world. yy m IV, t

The natural right of equality’ was supposed to ‘deepen the place of historical
the right of exploitation and oppression, the ownership of the herd is the center of cultural
tour order of the Caintalistic society.

„,Organization of industrial enterprises, trusts, joint stock
societies, exchanges, banks - all this with. speaks most clearly about the development
tia in life of new feudal type rights and privileges. Law and Reason
give up their place to power and property. Class strugglehatred and
prejudices fill every page of the history of capitalist culture.
The culture of liberalism with its inherent order of human relations
placed property between people and, thanks to it, drew them into chaos
intermittent, hostile, attitude towards each other. This enmity and hatred
appears ‘brightly even in the relations of the capitalists themselves. Relationships,
conditioned solely by the interests of personal gain, regardless of
their neighbors, bring hatred, malice, envy, malice, lies, deceit and
much more to the stock exchange, to a joint stock company, to a political party,
etc. Every bourgeois entrepreneur walks, in the words of the psalmist, “like
a lion seeking someone to devour, And woe to the man who approaches. to his
join him with an open heart and complete trust. ,

“Life in this society is full of alienation from everything human,
The feeling of loneliness and isolation colors all human experiences,
until life finally mechanizes it. Sincerity and simplicity regarding
tion disappears even among the best representatives of society. And no wonder
It is significant that in the capitalist system, quantitative
negative assessment of life and people, destroying internal, creative unity
human society. | $
“Money... this is the ideal of a person in bourgeois society, Money supports
and a certain cultural order,

yy material security frees a person from dependence
gives him confidence in life, but there is a limit beyond which
No. 11412 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ``3"

acquisition. money. loses its original meaning not only by showing its originality” |
nium of your creative powers, but also delays their development and manifestation! 2...
._ V. prozivoves this quantitative-utilitarian relation” to people and’t

performed for society in life. other, › democratic. beginning, drains,
qualitative: It tried to make its adjustments” to the culture (

liberalism, but it had no socially creative meaning, the beginning -
predominantly moral, it was. formulaovano; maltrimer, in
ski systems of Fichte, Kant, Hegel, c. Protestantism. oli slit

_ Kant, for example, tried to eliminate the contradiction ‘between. quantitative=
with the new and qualitative ‘beginning of his ‘theories imiriereim, kah goiter’oloniii:
of a multitude of people according to legal laws." va aegr chtskoe

V. Kant's view of the state of freedom. is ‘the force of law;
obligatory for all constituents of the state; ‘this is no longer just freedom’
desire for independence. But Kant did not resolve the main one either! problems;
standing before bourgeois society, -cha. exactly how to coordinate to the left"
public human right with state law, how to reconcile people”
with a citizen, how to get out of a difficult situation “I want” and’
doyzhen." name: g

Democracy has come to the conclusion that power must be in the hands of
the majority of the people, regardless of the property status of “and”
provisions. This majority ‘regulates public life and gives it
a certain direction depending on the common interests of the majority: |

Yusli liberalism believed that it was joint. ‘life of “intelligent beings”
must inevitably lead. “to a reasonable city!, that is; here we are
this “harmony” must be established by the will of the majority. ty r

But the democratic state preserved it. all the main features of the state
stva in general; since they are chosen by the majority of the people. officials faces and
their governing bodies ‘with the existence of a class structure of society

always turn into a weapon of domination over the people. This is the day
F. Engels found out, summing up the experience of the Paris Commune.

“We must not forget that democratic conversations will be
the majority of the people are idle chatter. In modern. society parliament
is always in the hands of the bourgeoisie and serves as an excellent means of ordering
the pain of the proletarian masses. And how. if only democracy would not fight for iriobretez
the majority in parliament and for the omnipotence of parliament over the government
stvom; everything ‘remains in. within the framework of society and otters are accustomed to
urieneh, and

‚„Marx ledgrabbed it hard. this essence of capitalist democracy
Having said in his analysis of the experience of the Commune: the oppressed once every few years
allow. decide which representative of the oppressive class
will represent and suppress them in parliament,” writes Comrade N. Lenin in
his brochure “State and Revolution”,

Democracy with its theory of the state could not rise to the level of understanding
tiya of “collective will”; since it is possible to implement the “collective will”
only’ when the state disappears. Comrade Lenin in his pamphlet
confirms this place. from. Engels' letters to Bebel, where it is clearly said,
that “the proletariat needs a state not in the interests of freedom, & in
interests of suppressing their opponents, and when possible. there will be. talk about
freedom, there will be a state.”

This fundamental position of Marxism formulates the immutable
the truth that the question of human freedom cannot be resolved in capital
in a linguistic society, no formulation, tasks, etc. organizational
forms of state.

“For the bourgeoisie,” wrote F. Lassalle, a state way of life is needed
only the goal of providing each individual person with unhindered
new use of her own powers’ and. This idea may come true
moral and would completely satisfy us if all the people went away

1

5
4: PROUNETAR CULTURE. mm,

equally dexterous ‘strong; equally well educated’ and ‘possessed water’
However, people are not equal and cannot be equal in:
in all these respects, therefore bourgeois state morality’ and not
doetalochio ptiroka’ and when eating! ‘carrying out leads (to complete >
immorality; ‹ more ‘strong’ and \ more dexterous due to the strength of this ‘morality’
p raises more’, the weaker and ‘shades’ it; as far as 'only' can. | x
'The workers view the purpose of the state differently. I B

Its state ‘structure’ cannot have its own personal
body 'and 'ownership of ‹ individual people whom ' they, by! ‘bourgeois
pretotacenyu, already. as if "possessed pri’ creation of such a ‘way of life’; quite
no, the purpose of establishing a state structure is, precisely. in’ that;
so that by uniting individual people, ‘give them the opportunity, by common’ forces
rise to such a level of the social system; which they couldn't
achieve by acting’ each separately; the state structure’ must”
help individuals; unified in societyb} rise to’ such a level
crown of light, freedom. and' power; they did not even dare to sword

tal remaining separate, not connected by obi yuesurirsraeniya, idea
personalities ")“. th

Thrace Sumin could not, ed pariiiichsk to such a point

vision.
``o In its I rinodanija human rights and grazkdaniva.'' she proclaimed |
equality, ‘freedom; security ‘and ownership.

“Equality consists in the fact that the vacancy is the same for the milestones; will it be
he, ‘or punishes®. (Article 5: Constitution" 1795). > ;

“Freedom is the right that belongs to a person and is unique to everything that does not harm
rights of another“... (from; ib-I Declaration. 1791 ha
„ ‘Safety consists’ in ` zatsit ; rendered’ to his warrior
member, in order to preserve his 'personality, his 'rights and' his
Komot. No. 108) mo ohm 6 n
“The right to you is the right that belongs to every ordinian”
but at his discretion to use and dispose of it. with your property,
your income; with the fruits of her labor and washed herself” (Art. \16th` Konet. 1798).

“None of these rights” of man, as Marx wrote, “goes beyond the pre-
the affairs of an egoistic person, ‹ a person as a member of civil society,
those Jacques 'individual, gone. into oneself, into one’s private interests and one’s personal
new will and isolated it from the community. A person not only doesn’t consider
appears in them as a generic being; on the contrary, generic life itself, society
is considered within the limits! for individuals; nak‘limiting their per-
initial independence. “The only connection that unites them,
is a natural necessity, need and private interest; ›co-'
storage of one's propertyAnd. your egoistic personality?)“. |

But “man, as a member of civil society, continues K: Mark; ==
has the meaning of a true person, a ‘body’ as opposed to a citizen, for
he is a man in his closest “feeling” individual
existence, while the political man is only abstract,
artificial man as an allegorical,) moral. personality: ‚Day-
a significant person is recognized only in the form of an egoistic personality; true
man. drink ‘in the guise of an employed citizen 4 |

Tonov. results of bourgeois culture.

9
, 1, s

understand the main problem of culture; ‘liberation of pictoriality from
exploitation and give the opportunity to reveal its creative principle;
Only socialism could do it.

„;у}

and. F, Laesal, Workers Program. Edition by Prublevok 1906, pp. 35-07.
2) C. Marquet and F. Eigelje, Literary Science, Vol. t neg. ZTG. GO "Mir".
8) Ram same' neg. 875,

|
„No. 1112 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.5

Socialism is the basis of the organization. society was brought forward by labor. Everyone's work
its various forms, mental and physical, becomes. edge
coal stone of culture, the basic factor of life; and from the point of view
the universal labor principle occurs. perestroika. all sociological
philosophical and other theories, revaluation of the entire structure and entire content
life,

First of all, I stood up. First of all, whoever is considered the bearer of a new culture -
and the answer was clear, If in the bourgeois system culture was determined by the master
ity of social groups organizing production, now construction
‚ culture passes to another social category, to those who are

labor representative

Korda, we put work as the basis of culture, then. under the latter we have
This does not mean the forced labor of a slave who reigned. in life throughout
viii of so many centuries and creative spirit among the broad masses. active
ness in life, Not this work, but work. creative and productive,
giving us ‚aa + the basis of proletarian culture. Joyful. not
sweatOh, just that, he and the rational distribution harmoniously
strengthens our body and gives it vital stability and balance, and
not because the things produced satisfy us aesthetically. Labor,
as creative, free. a process that makes it possible not only
creating life, but also improving it - this is the basis of a new culture. And in this
through labor the whole person will be revealed: thinking, feeling and contemplating.

If earlier labor required a huge amount of dead, then these sacrifices
were. victims of antisocial conditions, but the work of the new culture will be
the basis of creative creation, the task will be to
continually objectify and multiply the content of life, whether inside
man, or outside of him, always create a new living reality. This one
the process always presupposes cash and. I have a close connection with the object over which
a creative act is performed and the subject, as a carrier and consumer of creative
quality. This complex organizational cooperation will involve
the close connection of man with nature, with his own kind and, finally, with himself
yourself.

The labor principle of culture logically and inevitably eliminates the old
social classification of people, Principles of responsibility, cultural
psychological and political will disappear forever.

The contradiction between the Dibériade-democratic culture is also eliminated.
"tours with its quantitative and qualitative principles, since labor, like
we have already indicated that it harmoniously organizes the thought, feeling and will of a person,
licks it with nature and creates conditions for assessment and reortalyvikia, life in
the process of its development: ,. \

Socialism, as a socialist doctrine, in its entirety. denies › ‘losudar-
ism, although he, striving to organize social relations that
from the life of work, and poses the problem of organization. society. chi oe

In liberal democratic systems, the state even, in its ideal’
“It was not thought of as anything other than an organization of coercion, but in fact it was
lytic organization, = entirely. serving the Kagitalists in their
exploitationfolk atations. wt.

kYa socialism, creating a new society, does not see in a certain Zorra-
ization of human individuals and their active and creative wills of violence on’
natural human right. , 'kt

“Velving out the brutal helplessness of the bourgeoisie to reconcile “man”

© “citizen”, K, Marx pointed out that emancipation. human personality
“committed only when “when a real individual” person
will perceive himself as abstract, a citizen of the state and as an individual
man will become a tribal being. c. its empirical. life, in my
individual work, in their individual relationships, only then"
when a person recognizes and organizes his personal forces as social
6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. №` 11-12

strength and therefore no longer has the experience of separating from himself social force in the form
political force *)*,

The new society provides precisely the opportunity to resolve the “damned” dilemma
bourgeois culture: “citizen and man,” “duty and one’s own desire.”

Liberal-democratic theories of ‘various kinds of challenges’ confronted the state
gift of the problem of protecting the independence of the individual, socialism
set another’ task: to organize society ‘so that ‘it’ as a whole, as
a collective organism, united in its diversity, was the creator of life,
to create an opportunity for a person to develop into a positive
side, i.e. fulfill “true human” purpose, AI ru
in the highest form accessible to the human race.

In that state apparatus, which is based on solidarity
interests and general direction’ towards the progress of culture, the desire for’ power -
and submission; the desire to obscure and reconcile social classes
of contradictions gives way to Iroto's pre-shock enthusiasm and Porec
creative unity,

These are new social ‘relations, since’ they will be formed in
new groups and unions; ‘will create individually identified people,’ life
which are replenished by socialized ‘experience. "The growth of new public
prupiand related unions. the unity of the socialist ideal; will be the base
zero content of life, and ‘outside of them’ it will not ‘be able to crystallize
individual personality.

The principle of ‘socialist rule, the stream of authoritarian organization
tion of democracy, leads to the creation‘ indeed! free 'democracy'; a
97% is precisely what promotes the growth and development of individuals in
their great diversity,

“In addition, as D. Koeyei writes, “totalness” and individuality,
the life of the cosmos and the life of a single phenomenon will find reconciliation in art,
in that side of cultural reality that seeks to penetrate
in “every manifestation of Chepoven, from “language” and “labor” right up to its relationship to
the world 'in its entirety. 'Thanks to art,' all nature, all corporeal...
acquires a socio-spiritual essence; the natural world accepts artistic
new forms; shomy vetupai ‘into’ intimate relationships’ with nature. Art
develops spontaneity and independence.” ^^

From what has been said it is clear that the man of the future will live by feelings and
positive, affirming and creative desires. ^

But socialism, as the highest stage of cultural development of mankind,
can’t ‘give us a new ‘man’ from Nena Zoya, who doesn’t know his
birth, ‘alien’ to the entire ‘historical heritage. Vice versa. ‘Putting in
the basis of all cultural creativity is labor, as an incentive ‘and ‘regulator’
life, new person. naturally it will be from the source
rich content of life.

But there is harmony 'and loneliness, 'in which there will be 4 'rejoicing
heir, ie ‘excludes. dramatism of life. b

``development of socialist life' as the principle is realized
collectivism, the drama of the existence of bourgeois society ‘will give way to new
conflicts and war. But this will not be a fight for equality and for one’s own
'separate' existence. The personality level will rise ‘up to’ three times
* troupes, ‘union’ and even ‘the whole’ social organism. ^'

If already now the truly comradely relations of the members of the socialist
icalorganizations are colored by a ‘deep sense of intimacy, then in
in existence, this ‘intimacy will permeate’ the entire ‘structure of the socialistic world and
will not allow an individual to break away from one or another social
groups; necessary: ‘organ’ in life” niya Ata No. a non-block
we have the same principles and common content.

r Marmo y Engelyv Liferamur ov Cha icy. Su. 375: Water K

fochat and TU
Ab 11-12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. #7

Yes, the very tragedy of the individual will be determined by non-raziad.me-
I'm waiting. consciousness and ‹feelings, but ‘those obstacles in’ the fight ‘with external
conditions with which. humanity will meet in its affirmation
life. › wad KR AI and, ions

Socialism of feeling, socialism of consciousness and socialism of action, this is -
one essence. th

However, the tragedy of life in our understanding excludes that. pessimism
and optimism that were inherent in the moral and philosophical! drilling systems
zhuaz 'society. The latter was organized around the exploitation of ‘alien
forces, everything was based on the principle of capitalist utility in full
the meaning of the word and the struggle of classes; internal fragmentation, lack of ideas
ity, oppression its principles. In such a society, among creators. various
doctrines, “depending on their class “or group” position in
society, Morley builds systems colored by pessimism and optimism, in
a socialist society, with a universal 'economic' and 'legal'
In equality, there will be no place for these sentiments. The tragedy of life will depend
from one or another long-term or short-lived, deep or sporadic.
obstacles in the organization of life, the Consciousness of its own ‘world-
historical purpose, confidence in the possibility of implementing this
great role will communicate the tragedy of the socialist personality to the heroic |
Chinese character, >

‚ In a society where labor is the result of the brute force of laws
political and physiological life, the growth of moral consciousness declines,

The struggle for existence kills all the highest impulses of a person. And only
a new culture thatheaven will serve not the individual, but the whole
humanity, can set forth a new principle of morality, that man
should live not as a modern individualist, but as a bearer of sociality
cultural ideas, as an exponent of the collective will of society. And a new man
this may be the case. True, in a socialist society the area is narrowed
moral relations in the political field, but it is significantly
expands in the sphere of liberated labor and individual life. To the Creator
life cannot be manly. consciousness of responsibility. 'before. society,
basic principle of morality. {Kim)

. This idea was perfectly expressed in his famous speech by Lassalle. He said; “The lower classes of society, to their great happiness, have contradictions
‘between personal interests. and the cultural development of the entire people’
“Really not.” available, m MT vi!

We don’t want to say ‘this, x so that y’. completely lower classes

all selfish feeling was absent; ‘there is much more of it,
‘what it should be, and they have it, but it. persists here as a vice of individuals,

but does not constitute a characteristic and integral feature of the whole
class... >’ | i m szczęcai

Since the lower classes of society want to improve their class position,
zheniya, since they care about the interests of their entire class, --— their personal int."
res. already not, contradicts the historical process and does not’ make the estate
essentially immoral: moreover, personal interest in such
case, its direction completely coincides with the development of the entire ‘people, with
the victory of advanced ideas, with the progress of culture, with the most vital principle
principle consisting in the development of freedom. The case of the 'lower class' becomes like
We have already indicated that it is a matter for all humanity. 1)" and "{9

If in a catalistic society the relations of people were regulated
various kinds of rights and least of all moral consciousness, then in! future.
these relationships will be largely ‘regulated by moral
the requirement to live for the sake of the development of culture, ‘for the sake of consciousness in oneself.’ veeob’-
the one who eats, bcontinuous and free. creator of life, for the sake of transformation

|

*) Lasevle, “Workers’ Program”, Vrublevskono edition 1900 meter (9
CH. IROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 71-12

‘life in. creative act ‘i. defense' of this: 'acts of being a hero' in personal and
“social” life! will become the aspiration of kal:dogo. Koli'before: man saw

- your happiness in the absence of personal suffering; ‘then now in a solemn and...
the victorious march “from the world of necessity to the world of freedom,” from the world

bourgeois culture “world of proletarian culture.” ,

`And the idea of ​​a new society’ proletarian culture) should’ casting with
our inner self”: She must’ be; I will say in the words of that Laesal,
» ',interred: by you in the workshop at work, and during rest hours; ‘on a walk, on’so-
‚ scolding; she shouldn't throw you away when) the Cordavians 'will lie down' on
: hard. ‘bed for’ rested here until ‘sleep’ came! your ‘eyes, this idea’
should fill your soul and occupy you... The more kindly you treat
to your task, all the more so, speed up the onset of domination ‚ibtiniogo
‚ p printschim, experienced. r Peter martyr aa, te. and E sni*ar"
Complete yours. mission 1)". o U IA
. “Otherwise; - with what more energetic and self-motivated will we take on” the winter -
ev" ‚our culture, especially in the field of everyday life,‘ and mam r zij task
‚ perfect socialist I oh IV Seth
| YAGA 0< ishochvon ovgivitUa“u Pi '’Vaporyai” Polinny.

ETOON OF RTI CAKES - 1 1

+

5 about The beginnings of proletarian aesthetics.

BT + Are you special? class, aesthetics? “Of course it can.”
chz ‹ Is it. yes. educated ‘person’ in the world; who will deny that
“Different nations have different aesthetics: You have to become” content. high’ and ‘own-
 equal “extinguishment of cultural” development; to acquire the ability to ‘on -
walk beauty in almost all works of art and are equally 'delighted'
`Tagyeya, wooden idol of a small one: the metro is her bolokuda) Venus” you go and
u „stotuey!, urdellai sieve NI fz Shche dicks
sa, snaza, ‘what: point, point of view, ‚above, ‘Point''li' vision; ‘stories
iskusetla, which ‘knows how to see in. all aesthetics of different peoples and eras
only varieties of a single aesthetics, irreconcilable varieties, themselves
you are: contradictory to each other, or the point of view of a person, pre-
“given” to a new: style that has determined its taste and’ therefore ‘noterlimo’®ino-
‚hanging! "to 'everything 'alien. But' be that as it may, 'it is clear that not only
different peoples are different. understand the beauty of a woman, the beauty of colors, m,
‹ equally, they embody their own. deity, your ‘ideals, but what/in different oo you
change these tastes and move “to the aggressively opposite. 10"
r. ‚And; if we look closely at why. tastes change; then we
We'll see; what. at the core of this. there are changes in the economic structure); in general
changes in the degree of influence of one or another ori" kliosi "on
culture" g O\fo5o them, TOTO your sha 501
`Some of them were very polite. brightly browvetey 'in giaza Chao 'nashrimer,
"and with great" wit. says that the folk ‘irmarka iz’tolavu dressed
in the most varied colorful costumes; in the roar; conversation; explosions of 'fur,
squeaking ‘pipes;. with the roar of cattle, the cries of traders, etc., the most
. intoxicatingly cheerful ‘impression’ on a person ‚from | common people "On the contrary, ‘intelligence
Ligent, according to Goethe, will find these colors flashy, this movement is top-
dizzying and tiring, this mind is unbearable” and heavy and... except
The headache won’t take anything away from the spectacle. On the contrary, some prim-
this holiday of intellectuals in their dark suits, these ‘measured
‚ movements will seem to a flamboyant guy or a cheerful ‘village girl’ ‘not-
`with extreme boredom, Chernyshevsky adds with no less wit: ‘ideal
and beauty is inherent in the peasant on the one hand; intellectuals - on the other hand.

') Darkness, Fur, 89
No. 1124.12 1 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. th

Great intelligent people, says Chernyshevsky; love terribly
a small leg and a small hand. Meanwhile, what do these features mean?--
Degeneration, marasitism, ‘that’ is the same thingphenomenon ‘which some lice

then in the ‘bags,’ lithiemin of all sorts of organs. The beginning of the atrophy of the body is here
ao” No. 06, aribtocratic hand’ and’ note. They' would have to instill
people: undisguised disgust. On the contrary, the peasant with extreme precision
the axis can” determine when he chooses his own “degree of health”
years and asks herself whether she will be a good worker and a wife and mother.

from’ Iinu she is fucked, physical strength is clearly expressed signs of a woman
responsibility in the very least about the sense of ‘this room ‚what’ will be
im ottol oo 3 A

"4 So; we see in the examples contrasted and replaced by 1 OOB
’ society ‘sharply opposing views in the ‘field’ of aesthetics: .’

``7o^ Let us now turn our attention to some particularly striking
fact. Don’t we see how the fluttering cupids / ‘on the ‘gilded fitur-
furniture, on gobepen ‘m decorated ceilings of the Rococo period./ rendered
suddenly frightened by the virtuous philistines Grez and even more

them, stylish. in their design, restrained! ‘in’ coloring, patriots

r. mts and Rome, which `favored by the revolutionary painter David. › {

Each class carries with it its own aesthetics, if it has its own image
life, your approach to action, your ideal and philosophy,

Of course; It is wrong to oppose the bourgeoisie with a blanket vote: the probtariat.

and browny > potetics are the aesthetics of ‘upstarts’; ‘merchants, ‘manufacturers. Nearby
© it exists, of course; seasoned and’ a certain ‘taste’ of the aristocracy
old type, more or less refined; often unscrewed; ‘lost,
but sometimes’ very ‘noble and high, to the taste of specialists Oh,
miserable `vulgarity taste of the philistines named after them. go to the railway axle and

As for the proletariat, in his works he “artfully
“in real life, of course, relatively little ‘revealed his aesthetic
face, For ‘that’s why he was kept too much’, so to speak, in the basement
‘cultures, where the rays’ of the sun of creativity ‘penetrated’ from where; due to
this, also ve’ rose in no waye artistic! influence: needles

But what could be expected ‘a priori; ‘what affected some
individual works that undoubtedly have a proletarian character,
written either by intellectuals who were under the strong influence
proletariat, or working artists, similar and even more dense
shoots! } proletarian | skillful and proletarian `“^ you ‚ which we see
We are in the spring, still under heavy ZHA, three thinner ones ^ in the Russian
Soviet culture. love ko echiwon"

But the proletariat, it turns out, has in some respects revealed its aesthetic
ical person through the creation of ‘some former classes and groups. So, for example,
Are we engineering imperialism, Davigy famous poems in honor of the machine

and big industry, like Kellerman, leads us to proletarian poetry
in honor of mantina and production. Only capitalists take a car like a ma-
purity, and do not know how to see it as menstruation, and
ue sy ‘Buildings in the kingdom! isolation. ‘^^ m Be
"In general, some Kellorman and some Fbooil living
’”to each other, than the one and the other to the “determiner” of the poetic in the same age

‘ interpretation of this blova, i.e.; taste for the ‘refined and ancient’; or to me-
Shchanin with his small-grass satimentality> knew how, in the car’ ‘one
nor the horror, the roar and the soot. 9 I
``On the other hand, the proletariat is to some extent related to anarcho-
Bosnian intelligentsia in revolutionary eras, and sometimes in eras
’ ‘reactions. In the first case in groups, in the second ‘intelligence units’
‘the artists ‘protested sharply ‘against.’ reality, angrily’ ‘scourge-
raised the ruling class and often eloquently and passionately called for the re-
Otania. 5%

©
5 0 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. No. 11-12

But in these intellectual works the well-known over-
well known. degree of hysteria and... torn off; from. life of idealism,
‘o And then the proletariat, starting to chant their fighting songs, brings in. in them
more of something ‘vital, confident, and into the horizons. future, when the
letharekthe poet reveals them, he brings more breadth, calmness and sub-
long, happiness. BYay t 7 9. @ ‹ NIE G &
There are squabbles between those intellectuals too. realists who
They depicted life with hopeless severity, and sometimes with tears of compassion.
poor people, with the proletarian desire to tell the whole truth about themselves and their
rotten. living. under the shadow of kainitalist factories. m UT
But at the same time, as an intellectual, he strikes at the objectivity of nature
sheet, following in the footsteps of Zola, then fusses over what he depicts. grief -flight-
riat contributes here too. simultaneously. wonderful objectivity and calmness, and
at the same time, a kind of cold anger, right away. Reshakoi Ooda, artist
‚not only. How. an observer, but also as a fighter. bb
AU \Perhaps, the most original thing for the proletariat is collectivism
>‚the poetic note in his works, It was not for nothing that I named the best among the intellectuals
‚pigents, the tita of the intellectual creator, we are always with the intellectual
there is a tendency towards individualism, the worker feels more. mass o. everyone
For obvious reasons. The worker poets will be the poets of the masses. They're already starting
sing your anthem to the masses, for the masses and through the masses. RU
un Veyul originality of this trait. proletariat. will then be able to express
“When he is able to build his own palaces and entire cities, write down
to fill the frescoes with immeasurability: oten, to populate them with a people of statues, to force
at their courtyards to sound with new music, to arrange in the squares of their cities
kind of gigantic spectacles in which the viewer and the actor mix
in one celebration. Then the feature of collective creativity, to which
d 'petaratg was brought up by the hell of capitalism, will emerge with all its strength, and all fundamentally
some of the features of proletarian art: love of science and technology, cleverness
“The vision of the future, the ardor of battle, the merciless truthfulness, will then be acquired,
‚‚ drawing on the ‘genre of collectivistic perception of the world and collective
creativity, incredible scope and barely foreseeable depth.
This is, in general terms, the aesthetics of the proletariat.

3

A.Lunachareniy,

_' Essays on organizational science.
its _ Basic organizational mechanisms “).
II, Gao” No. Forming mechanism,

O Vo L. Conjugation,
‚^.‹ o A person in his organizing activity is only a student
7 'about and imitate the great general organizer - nature. Therefore methods

human cannot go beyond the methods of nature, and provide
sho attitude towards them only. special cases. But ‘we have special cases,

Of course, more ‘closer’. ‘and’ are familiar, and therefore the study of organizational

methods have to be carried out based precisely on them, and from them moving on to

“more general, and then universal ‘ways of organization in nature.

It has long been noticed and established that in all its activities - in practice -
tics and thinking - a person only connects 4 shares some val-
high ‘elements. The labor process comes down to the combination of different “materials”,

-puorudii" works and" "labor power" and to the separation of different parts of them. com-
pieks; resulting in. It turns out organized. the whole is “product”.

—.—_sch

4) This is a dream in the series of “Essays®”, See, “Prospect K, No. 7 Vi 910,
No. 111 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. en

Connecting. worker effort. cutting tool, piece of wood,
shavings and pieces of wood are separated, the tool is completed with it.
sewed his movement; a new force is applied to the tool, leading
to the new. it, in contact with a piece of wood, etc., under: the chain combines

‚ and ‚separations‘, sometimes relatively simple, often very complex,

difficult to describe. “in words, ——— but always only this, and never anything
something that would not fit into these concepts. And also in the region
thinking. A generalizing effort connects, unites elements or complexes

‘of experience, the discriminating effort separates them; nothing else beyond these
“There may not be a framework here. No logic, no methodology, found

I haven't seen anything else yet.

But further research reveals that these two ahts are connected
division and division—play an unequal role in thehuman activities occupy
there is not the same place in it: one of them is primary, the other is pro-
derived, one could be immediate, the other is always only

‚result. Suppose that a worker needs to cut a piece of wood into

two parts, or at least break it, in general - divide it, basin. or. otherwise,

There was no direct, immediate act by which this could be achieved.

‘exists: the employee certainly must. bring the divided object into

contact either with a tool or with the organs of one’s ted is an act of connection
viya - and apply something specific to this system. live the act of connecting
opinions. The severance of the connection between the object will occur only as a consequence of these combinations.
ny, as an event of a tyurtic nature. |

‚. The situation is no different. in thinking. Navakoy “discrimination”, “anti-
resna “difference” is impossible without preliminary comparison,

i.e., connections of separated complexes, in some common field - the field
"consciousness" or "experience". For a long time a child does not know how to distinguish, for example, a cat from

‚dogs, . ‚or. one stranger to the family, a man from another;, only, ‚when

he will happen to see them nearby, go when their images become familiar and
firmly fixed in consciousness, so that a clear idea of the missing
what he can compare with the perception of what is present, only then can he
can “distinguish” them, i.e. ‘to divide in your own. experience. The most effort is directed
committed to such a goal, arises only in. in the event that two complexes
have something in common, some of their elements merge. or mix-
stay with their own. meeting. in the field of experience, Therefore, . and here is the division
secondary, derivative, and here it is obtained on the basis of a compound.
Moving on. to processes of spontaneous nature, the study finds in
they are the same two moments and, in the same ratio, every event, every
the change in complexes and their forms can be represented as a chain of acts connected
the division of that which was separate, and the separation of that which was connected. Yes, b

‚food, nutrition, bodyis the addition of environmental elements to its composition,
nyaiynny occurs in such a way that it is separated from the body, known

naya corruption. his. elements; all chemical reactions come down to combinations

Names of atomic complexes. substances and their decompositions; “Even a simple “re-

displacement." bodies should be understood as such. in a way that they are separated from one

complexes of the environment, which were. spatially connected, and enter into
such connection with others. In this case, for any connection break, it is possible to establish
to see, as a necessary preceding moment, some act of connection
kind, character. For example... a free cell usually reproduces by division
based on its growth, i.e., the addition of willow substances; reproduction

‚ chemical complex occurs as a result of ‘either’ contact,.it with

other substance\, or ‘entry into it from the outside’ mbvy ‘thermal activities,
electrical, etc. A completely independent act of ‘separation, not
caused by the same or otherwise. act of connection. be not. Maybe. =‘.

k- Therefore, primary’, moment; › variety ‘changes, . arose-

‚revolution, destruction, development of organizational structures‚ or the basis of ‘forms.
ohm

peaceful
The tektoloshchesky mechanism is a connection with 'We. we will denote

%
12 ‘PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 11-12

We are a term taken from biology, more profound in English and international
Nominal for use - conyushia 1).

We must clearly imagine the generality of this concept; to flow
operate on it logically. Conjugation - from ‘and this cooperation, and’ any other
communication, e.g. conversation, and connecting concepts. into ideas, and the meeting of ‘images’
or aspirations in the field of consciousness, and the fusion of metals, and electric
discharge between two bodies, and exchange of enterprises. goods, and exchange of goods
pure energy of celestial bodies; con’ogation connects our brain with distant
like a star when we see it through a telescope; and © the smallest bacterium,
which we find in the field of view of the microscope. Conjugation - assimilation of an organ-
nism of food that supportshis life, and the poison that would destroy him
shit, tender embraces of lovers and frantic embraces of enemies, congress of work
‘Niki one thing and a battle between hostile troops... |

Scientific-organizational concepts are as strictly formal as ma-
thematic, which, in fact, belong to them; “conjugation” on-
as much as the addition of quantities, which is its special case.
We consider fighting armies with the same right and justification; how
two conjugating combinations, with which we determine the total number
participating in this battle by adding the numbers of both sides. Sub'ek-
the tive goals of the parties are indifferent here; the objective relationship is important: both
complex are in “interaction”, their elements are active and changing
sew together, “influence” one on the other, generally “combine”, move from
one complex into another, in the form, for example; capture of silt and equipment; but
also in the form of mutual borrowing of experience; learning from each other
‘at least fighting techniques, often’ and other practical information. Siloing
communities, tribes, peoples’ into vast societies was achieved in stories like
‘through wars and through peaceful relations, friendly exchanges; difference
in the amount of energy wasted, in the degree of accompanying disorganization; but
it, as we will see, is present in all conjugation processes, © “peaceful” or
"hostile" tendency. And the results themselves are far from being determined
this trend, often do not ‘at all’ correspond to it; e.g. knives energy ‘chi-

‚rurga, conjugating with the life’ complex of his patient) ‘can sometimes
disorganize it to a great extent; than the nozk and energy of a criminal killer;
a friendly message can deal a fatal blow to a person; and vice versa,
malicious passion has more than once given rise to the most positive life changes
opinions, : 4

° So, the results of com- jugation are tectologically different, and
’asking a question about them, in general terms, in relation to activity elements,
forming the content of complexes, it is easy to outline three possible cases.

`,1) Activitiesof one complex and the activities of another are connected in such a way that
what’ #6 ‘are made by “resistance” one to another, consequently, ‘without

_ any “losses”: the ultimate positive result. Most typical
examples: merging of two waves of equal length with complete coincidence of their sub`-
hills and their valleys; the merging of two drops of water into one, ‘taken from the chemical
ical activities embodied in its molecules; simultaneous and odiz-
the carefully directed efforts of two workers, made in such conditions,

{) In biology, this word is applied to the connection between two freely living
nestlings, constituting the prototype and embryo of complete reproduction. When actually ‘con’ -
jugation" two cells are united temporarily and partially (they usually exchange four-
one-zero part of its nuclear composition); with so-called “vopulations” they are blown away. goals-
com; In both cases, they usually follow the process of cell division; and each again
formed by already combined properties, by inheritance
mri g hand, thanks to’ n reproduction turns out to be creativity indeed
new forms, and not just a clever vision of the old ones. It is this shade - ekra-

__ oh ‘indication of creativity - and does, teria evon’jugation’, in its universal - grow-

‹/orennom! the sense most suitable for teutology: from its point of view, every image

‚. the formation of new forms is based on the combination of previous complexols, and great dance
the connection leads to the formation of new farms. ^n you Co
No. 11-42 PROLETARIAN, CULTURE, 135

what. they. not at all, not at all. interfere. to each other, for example, at lifting a log for,
two ends, b No. en mi ly
The more perfect the methods of scientific analysis become, the more decisive
it turns out that in its pure and complete form this case is
only . perfect. In reality, there is no absolutely harmonious
connection of activities during conjugation, it does not happen that any of them
share, no. turned out to be resistance for the other." The two waves don't match
with absolute. accuracy, and direction of efforttwo workers never
identically, violna; “losses” can be practically insignificant, so one hundred
quite legitimately ignored, or even inaccessible to modern methods
research, but for. According to scientific thinking, they always exist.
“Matter” exists. the most stable form of activity that we know;
and yet even the merger of two drops of water cannot not be accompanied by a
the destruction of at least a few. atoms, or at least a violation
their structures, at. which also “loses” part of their electrochemical
energy, dissipating, vibrations. This does not interfere with the fact that there are a lot of tasks.
practice and theory, such proximity to the limit is quite equivalent to achieving it.
2) The case is directly opposite: “the activity of one complex of sta-_
completely new, resistance to the activities of another, completely para-_
lick.them or. are paralyzed by them. Typical illustrations; merging of Y waves
equal, length and same direction with a difference of sub-waves; pro-
the oppositely directed efforts of the two. workers; connection of charges
inner and outer lining of the Leyden jar, etc. n, whose nm
ie From the first. From a glance it seems that this case should be just as
ideal, “only imaginable”, like the previous one, but this is not so. Very
it is probable, perhaps even certain, that the direction of the activities of the two
there will never be any complexes. violne opposite, so equal
their numbers cannot completely paralyze, or “neutralize” each other
friend, = that in this case we always get, at least negligibly small, effective
yuitsie, remnants; e.g., with equal efforts of two persons pulling each other
to the opposite. hand, due to the non-exact coincidence of the lines of these
effort, certainly. some lateral and oscillatory vibrations are detected

movement; and even mutual, the discharge of the linings of the Leyden jar itself
itself. will never lead to their absolutely neutral state; how
“roaring oscillation”, it can never end on its own,
But the current remainder of activities in one directionnia, in turn,
is completely neutralized if it encounters an excess of activity of another,
approximately the opposite direction, In this sense, complete neutral
lization is quite possible and is an extremely frequent phenomenon. Efforts
one. workers may be completely paralyzed to a greater extent
efforts of another, positive electric charge - more significant
negative, etc. p... |
‚ 8) The most common case: two complexes are connected in this way _

that their elements-activities partly add up, partly are
mutual resistance, i.e. organizationally deducted. Yes, two
employees enter into cooperation, combining more or less successfully
their efforts, helping, but at the same time involuntarily and interfering with each other. to a friend; two. waves
are being told. partly reinforcing one another, and. t, p, That prevails. or,
a different ratio, on which the general nature of the combination depends,

In itself, this case requires special explanation. But we must remember
that “comilex” is a relative concept, and depends entirely on the researcher.
divide it into parts, considering them as special complexes. They can be
mentally highlight and in such a way that for some of them it will turn out
no longer partial, but complete neutralization of their activities, for example, in the series
m due to the efforts of two employees, it can be found that some of them
are completely paralyzed. unfavorably ‘directed movements of another

8
4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE No. 1-3

employee. Consequently, the ‘third case, with `sufficient Janalize, ` concludes
There are also cases of the second. sort of like partial moments. = t:
en mt g. and 9. `Ingression. MIRA No., ml UK
` Now we are looking at what, in general terms, are the results of conjugation”““
from the side of the shape of the resulting bistems: "^^ MER cc
the process of conjugation is accompanied, obviously, by “ryuen enter-
drank in noe komilekva, in one wall or another. It can reach
as is clear from the previous one, before “destruction” or, more precisely, “neutralization”
one ‘complex, or some of Them, @ifconjugate several. But’
and besides, the transformation may be so profound that observation
uv “does not recognize” the previous complexes, does not recognize them as the same: con’
jugation of oxygen and hydrogen with the formation of water, conjugation of two mechanisms
ical impulses that give movement but the resultant, etc. p.— However |
the most general is ‘the case when and after the transformation WE at:
nimaom that the complexes “preserve”, “I continue!” exist only in u8>
changed form. Extreme siuchai'—destruction or’radical reorganization+
tion - with sufficient research they are reduced to it: by tracing the elements”
former complexes in new combinations, scientific thinking’ seems to rise
renews these former complexes for himself, finds under altered forms
their “indestructible” matter ‘or ‘energy, that of activity-resistance, ‹
from which they were composed. If, 'eg, positive and' negative
the electricity of the linings of the Leyden jar were mutually neutralized by
conjugation - discharge, then 570 Iv means that “both” activities re:
began to exist for knowledge; ‘lack of their practical manifestations
`it explains that the elements of both previous complexes, grouped
sew in pairs, verbalize each other; but they can be separated again and
lead to a better combination by applying appropriate government action from the outside,
t.-@. with the help of a new conjugation with the third complex. Also oxygen
and hydrogen, “unrecognizable”, after their combination, in the form of water, chemistry pro-
must cognitively find in the 6th molecules how their elements are atoms, and’
provides ways to again separate and group into previous systems. 'Xiaedo-
Therefore, from a scientific point of view, the result of conjugation in general is
system of transformation conjugated complexes. ,

These complexes can either remain in mutual connection, or again
to disunite in the very course of changes generated by conjugation. Viologists
ical “conjugation” of living independent cells associated with their separation
multiplication, refers precisely to the secondom type: .0be cells, exchanging
part of their elements, diverge again, and independently divide further.
Collision of two other bodies, after which they continue the 6th path
in new directions and ‘with new speeds’, applies ‘here. Process
separation may spread to parts of the original complexes, -
for example, when two glassy bodies shatter into pieces upon mutual impact.
Disunity, in addition, sometimes occurs generally across Libya, so distant
from the previous separation of the complexes, that it is impossible to ‘say which of the resulting
emerging new corresponds to one or another of the original ones; are as follows
e.g., exchange chemical reactions, such as the reaction of soda (carbon dioxide)
with sulfuric acid, giving sodium sulfate, carbon dioxide and water.—But
It is most convenient to begin our immediate consideration with the case of the ‘most simple
and very common, when conjugating complexes, without their radical
reorganization, remain in mutual connection: the unification of animals of different
gender into a family, people into a union, links into a chain, images of consciousness into associations
tion, it, p. ` ‘ -

What is this connection into which these complexes are united? Ras-
looking at all kinds of cases, it is easy to be convinced that its essence is always
boils down to one thing: these komileks have some part, some
the sum of elements common to each other, This is their “bundle”, It happens in different
No. ‘11-512 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 15

cases are quite different. A combination of two conjugated amoebas or bacteria -
this is ‘that fused part of their bodies that belongs equally to both; in
in the case of “copulation” it captures both bodies entirely’ Link of two links
chain - that part of one link that lies inside’ another, and ‘back, and’)
specifically - the surface of their contact. Linking two associated
images of consciousness are their “common features”; a bunch of organized in cooperation
The totality of efforts is their common object, etc.

In the area of the ligament all the changes that determine
orianization or disorganization of the emerging systemss. kon`yugi-
living cells, it is there that metabolic processes take place, increasing
shading ‘their viability,’ or - in ‘cases of ‘biologically unsuccessful,
combinations that reduce it. For its employees, it is in the general object that
the application of their efforts occurs or the merging of these ‘efforts into’ a harmonic
a combination that forms ‘them into one powerful movement, - ^or their reciprocity’
a delay that practically reduces them to a small, even negligible value.
B. consonance and dissonance are the coinciding parts of sound waves.
area of harmonic, stable aryn tones or disharmonic
their “beating”, etc.

A link means the “entry” of elements of one compliance into another and
back; therefore, such systems that are formed from’ complexes unite
connected by ‘ligament; we will call “impressive” (tetes!o, in Latin,

"entry"). 'You cannot imagine such an 'organizational' combination,
which would not be based on ingression: this is a universal form;: Sometimes
experience ‘does not directly give us connections ‘between’ complexes which,
however, together they form a certain system, are united by mutual dependence
bridge; then knowledge is forced to construct it; introduce ‘her hypothe-
personally; For example, if a magnetic needle turns ‘following movements
piece of iron) near it; then the “field lines” that go
from ‘one body to another and’ ‘back,’ belonging at the same time to both of them;
for the ‘wave and planets, a theory is created about some specific activities
“gravities” which in the same way serve as a connection between them, etc.; under.
These constructions can, of course, be unsuccessful and incorrect; but then
the task of knowledge is not to simply reject them, but to
in order to “replace them with constructions that are more expedient; ‘to do without
Ingression ‘it certainly cannot’, just as practice cannot do without it.
in those piles when you need a certain system of cash
complexes.

Knowledge in this case, as always, takes its methods from practice.
Assumethey are technically required to firmly connect two pieces of metal,
or "tree, 'or 'rope. A bundle is created by 'the entry of elements of one
complex to another. It is possible to carry out such an entry directly
not always easy, and sometimes impossible. For two ropes it is achieved
simple; nasr., by interlacing the fibers of one and the other, or by tying them
ends. This ‘simplicity’ and ‘lightness’ depends on the great ‘relative’ mobility
their frequency is frequent. Not so with pieces of metal: their elements, in ‘our ordinary’
conditions, ‘very little’ moves one in relation to another; and if
the most. the shape of the pieces is not particularly convenient for their connection,
like, let's say, the shape of a screw and a nut, then directly 'execute' it
It’s impossible. But technology knows ways to change molecular mobility:
pieces of metal can either be completely melted, which will allow them to be merged into one,
or melt each on one side, which will allow direct soldering
them, or, finally, without bringing them to melting, ‘increase them by heating
this ‘mobility’ to such an extent that it allows for “digestion” three times
the power of strong mechanical impact. Pieces of wood, however, are similar
it is impossible to combine these methods: ‘they are “irrevocably destroyed” when’
Grevavia earlier; than 'could have been purchased! ‘proper plasticity. '
In some cases, the “introductory” or “related” method is usually used

9 Yu
16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: No. 11-12

complexes. This role can be played, nair., glue, in liquid form easily
conjugating with the surface of the wood, and then hardening without losing its adhesion
acquired connection.—These techniques are quite parallel, it’s as if they were copied
Cognitive techniques for combining different components are developed.

Where possible, cognition indirectly merges the common elements
of these complexes, which is called “generalization”. If, for example, in one
field of thinking there are mental images of water in a river, water in a stream,
water in one, in another vessel, etc., then the connection between them all is semi-
appears, as it were, by superimposing themug on a friend, with whom. Unity:
is created by itself, in the form of a mass of coinciding elements. This is the main one

primitive phase of cognition. At a high level, it first breaks down"

gags. complexes into their elements, i.e., breaking, mentally, the connections of these
cops, gives them relative mobility, for example. images of a person,
fish, insects are very difficult to directly unite in the field of consciousness,
and if they overlap each other, then a combination is obtained. vague,
immediately disintegrating. But. when biology decomposed these complexes, .
It should be noted, and here first practically, - into their component parts - organs,
tissues, cells, then complete opportunity has been created. like this. comparisons,
—-T.-0. myelen conjugation, in which there are common elements. firmly united
are formed, and a stable scientific integration is obtained. Finally, in the decision

For more complex conjugation tasks, cognition resorts to the introductory method.

or mediating complexes, Nair., between man and monkey it
introduces the image of their common ancestor, between. spatially distant, but

mutually dependent bodies—ophir with various tensions and vibrations.

niami in it, it, under. ,

Creating ingressions is practically human. maybe only in the field of two.,

collective labor muscular. efforts are therefore limited
within. But this framework is constantly expanding with the progress of labor. Moreover

experience shows that through introductory links, it is expedient to select...

data, one or several or many, it is possible to establish the real

connection between any complexes, even if they were mutually distant. .

in the field of labor, or. mutually incompatible in the direction of activities..

It's possible. coordinate the efforts of workers located on opposite sides.

sides of the globe: you just need to introduce enough between them. number,

telegraph stations and wires; negotiations can be arranged between the

sharpened by fighting enemies - you just need to find suitable intermediaries;

it is possible to achieve mutual understanding and precise coordination of actionsyay,

between the Eskimo and the Papuan, between the English worker and the Russian. cross-

Yavin, - only knowledgeable and intelligent translators are needed; you can connect.
fire. and, water for cooking; tender, cells. think tanks and:

steel tool - for production or. destruction, etc. ROVZHNYK
›‚. Shovzvanie ‘operates with complexes much. more flexible, & its
field, which has as its basis the same field of physical labor, expanded

much more. "faster and easier. So, accordingly, faster and easier."
it. unfolds its chain of ingressions, establishing new and new ones. communications

where they were not there before, going through all sorts of

given boundaries: in an increasingly shorter time, the group has long since come to the idea

continuous communication. of everything that exists, to the idea. "global ingress".

Go no mu

[fe fu 3” Disinfection.
The result of “conjugation” may not be, only more or less
resistant to ingress. In many cases, the result is something else—rasiadevice.
com of the juxtaposed system, the formation of new divisions, new “borders”,
Let's consider one of the simplest cases of this kind. |

si A weight hangs on a silk thread fastened at one end; this. elozh-o

ny complex is called. "Rhysical pendulum". Thread. stretched; weight of the weight

-

together with its insignificant own weight it represents. a certain amount |
No. 142 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 7}

actinibotei directed towards the center of the earth. Girka, however, is a viosht, not
falls, because there is another trulia of antiquities - “clutch”, which
I counteracts the tension, and surpassing it in its magnitude, more
“What paralyzes” the 6th, but allows you to go into a real fall. o’
`”” Now we are coveting a new complex with this system: hanging
in the weight: 6umma of tension activities, therefore, digs. "If
However, there remains less adhesion activity in any part of the thread,
then the pendulum continues to hang; as before. But let’s say it turned out differently
‘ratio: at one point, or more precisely, at one of the cross sectionsthreads, in the place where the thread, for example, is thinnest, the amount of active
tension turned out to be 6 precision equal to the sum of clutch activities, which
then what will happen there? ev We <

At first glance, it seems that nothing special should happen:
both activities are mutually paralyzed, whether one or the other follows
Indeed, n6 manifest themselves in dramatic changes. But that's not true. No.

In the place where the complex’s own activities are completely neutralized
vans, obviously all resistance to external activities disappears. And they
are always present, There are not and cannot be complexes isolated in themselves
to ourselves: everyone is surrounded by an environment, differently organized complexes, different .
activities. They are tectologically “hostile” to him, that is, unfolding. by
in their directions, they can disrupt its shape, destroy it; and this
no ‘precisely’ insofar as it provides resistance, A. times
only in some point or area of it did resistance disappear and become
equals zero—external activities enter there, and the connection of the complex exerts
appears torn. In this case, these will be, for example, molecular impacts
particles of the surrounding air: in a calm state, they represent
for normal thread adhesion, an infinitesimal value; but when
the clutch is completely paralyzed, then infinitesimal influences are enough.
precisely so that the development of an effect that was previously impossible begins;
air particles enter between the particles of the thread, they are separated,
the complex collapsed. Teksolonian fannia passed through him, |

As we can see, it passed where complete neutralization took place
activities, what we will call “complete disinirrection” 1).

It still occurs today. since the idea of “empty space”,
as the absence of any environment. But it is completely wrong, it contradicts
to everything’ meaning of modern science. At every point of this “emptiness” - between”
stellar ether - every body placed there experiences the action of forces
electrical, magnetic, gravitation - the same as in other, more serious
nykh comcombinations characterize the one that is still known to us. mate:
real environment. Ekeli resistance of the ethereal medium is the smallest, then this
means that it is composed of the least organized complexes. Resistant
resistance, however, exists; although for a moving body, for example, it is
ordinary speeds are infinitely small, but with their increase it also increases
varies; and when the speed approaches the speed of light, it grows to an
of course - a large # magnitude, that is, it becomes almost insurmountable,
Consequently, the environment is always present; and therefore complete disingression is always
determines the introduction of elements of environmental activities along the lines of destruction
ny resistances—the formation of a tectological boundary. :

A vivid illustration of the tectological boundary, as well as its changes -
front line. It passes where the hostile efforts of two armies mutually
in what %

1!) This name means fatt, the opposite of ingression, V. ingression. vitivio-
ties that were not previously connected combine to form a “bundle” of conjugating jompaixons
n desigreesion they are visually paralyzed, which leads to the formation of a “border”, i.e. from-
deliosti. Because they are not completely paralyzed, there is no border yet: this is only a partial
Eesineressia; it is always mixed with all ingression, because, as we have seen, it is not

there is co-jugation of complexes without some waste of their activities in the form of vovimic
resistance. s

Iroletarekaya culture No. 12 2
\0
18 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 11-12

are balanced, and as long as they are balanced, When the
the line is broken, as happens when one side advances, the line
front disappears: ‘conjugation processes are underway - battles, fights, in which
elements of both sides are mixed in various combinations and each other
and actions. Then combat activities can return to equilibrium
no new front line; or the conjugation unfolds, further: and further,
and ends with the formation of a bundle, embodied in the peaceful. agreement, in
relations of domination - subordination, etc., Another illusiontradition - border
between the “northern” and “southern” half of the magnet; it is also conditioned
mutual neutralization of opposing activities, and can also
move when their ratio changes, for example, due to approximation
the presence of other magnetic masses or electric currents. Another example
nodal points of standing waves in a vibrating body; these are points where mutual
opposite oscillatory movements are paralyzed. Everywhere downstairs -
tional boundaries have the same basis: complete disingression.

There is generally a gap in the tectological boundary between the two complexes
the beginning of their conjugation, the moment from which they cease to be what they are
were - tectological separates, and form some new system,
with further transformations, the emergence of ligaments, disingressions
partial or complete, in a word, this is an organizational crisis of complex data
owls ‘Formation of a tectological boundary, creating from a given system
new individualities also makes it, in an organizational sense, not what
she was; this is also her crisis, only of a different type. All crises are observed
existing in life and nature, all “upheavals”, “revolutions”, “catastrophes” and
etc., belong to these two types. For example, revolutions in society are usually
represent a break in the social boundary between different classes; boiling
water - rupture of the physical boundary between the liquid and the atmosphere; razmio-
the movement of a living cell, the formation of a vital boundary between its parts,
gaining independence; death is a severance of the vital connection of an organ-
nism by paralyzing at some points its activities by others,
opposite directions, etc.

For the sake of brevity, we will refer to crises of the first type as “crises C”,
the second as “crises 1” 1), Based on the previous one, it is obvious that from
the primary ones are crises (’; any division is determined
previous conjugations. Thus, the breakdown of a mother cell into daughter cells
a cell is the result of its growth, its nutrition, i.e., conjugative inclusion
elements from the external environment into it; death ---result of entry into the body
external activities, fast and unusual - in case of violent death
or acute infection, gradual and consistent - with death. from
old age or metabolic diseases, etc.

Conjugation, ingression, copula, disingression, border, crises (and
crises /) - all these are basic concepts for the age of tectological
mechanism; they will serve us to study the most diverse cases of formation
formation of organizational forms, complexes, systems. But the datem stands out
the question of the fate of the emerging formations - of their preservation, consolidation"
research, spread, or their decline, death, This is a question of regulating
tectological mechanism,

TG, Regulatory mechanism,
1. Conservative selection.

Vee,; what arises has its own destiny. Its first, simplest expression
Life comes down to a dilemma: preservation or destruction. Both are completely
occurs naturally, so that it is often possible to foresee the fate of forms,

——-

1) That is, “conjugative”, connective, and “disjunctive”, divisive,
No. 11-12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 19

Natural preservation or destruction is the first scheme of universal
nog regulatory mechanism, designate it in its entirety. better by that name
which he received long ago in biology - “selection” or “selection”, Definition
we will discard the “backbone” one, since for tectology the difference is “natural”
“natural” and “artificial” processes are not fundamental.

The concept of selection, which paved the way for itself first of all in biology,
nevertheless, as we said, universally; organizational sound should
apply it to each and every complex, their systems, connections, boundaries.
To illustrate this universality, let us take a number of examples of the most diverse
native character.

Climate change is taking place in Otrano; it's getting colder, out
animals and plants living there are the only ones able to endure this
change of situation, and survive; others die. As a result, the organi-
the existence of life in a given territory is regulated according to the new
conditionsm.

Instead of climate change, let’s substitute human omniscience, previously there
not living. It destroys some organisms, takes away food from
others, supports others directly, and helps others indirectly.
destroying their enemies, etc. Tectologically, the case is completely homogeneous with
previous: the organization of life is regulated in accordance with the situation. Voz-
human action, planned or unconscious, for every life
forms the same external activity, useful or harmless or destructive
significant, such as changes in temperature or humidity.

The city is on fire. Mostly wooden buildings are dying

are preserved, the stone ones are preserved, the same city turns out to be in the area of ​​earthquake
Senia: multi-story and brick buildings are crumbling, one-story and
wooden ones withstand,
, A barley ear is stuffed into the sleeve of a walking man's dress.
down. The ears receive shocks in all sorts of directions; but everything changes
tions downwards are destroyed by the resistance of the awns, and upwards occur
freely: the ear rises along the sleeve.

Here a number of event complexes are selected, following each other
after each other in time, whereas in the previous examples it was a matter of computer
lexah-bodies existing simultaneously. The tectological scheme is not
how much it changes, ‹

If you shake the box in which they lie, let’s say, not
regular pieces of crushed sugar, then these pieces were gradually placed by her
So that the center of gravity of the entire mass occupies the lowest position,
what is possible, With various shocks, those movements of the pieces that
increase the center of gravity, are destroyed to a greater extent than those that
downgraded because the former encounter resistance not only from outside
equally frequent random shocks in the opposite direction, but also with
sides of the constantly acting earthly gravitational movement - the weight of the pieces.

If a person gets into serious trouble. situation, then from among the new re-
lives are predominantly retained’ and fixed in his psyche, and from
the former mostly float upin his mind those who have
gloomy, painful character, corresponding to the new situation; similarly
and in the opposite case: selection of ischemic complexes 00, sides
external environment.

In society, in its individual class, in any collective, from among
newly emerging human groupings, genies, ideas, retention
those that correspond to constant and general
conditions of his life, those that are in conflict with
them: selection of social complexes.

 Comparing these various illustrations, it is easy to see that tectological
The Chinese selection scheme differs from the “natural selection” of biologists in one
necessary simplification or reduction. Biological selection of

RH
m
20 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 11-12

delays reproduction, along with heredity; general organizational chart
cannot include this, because reproduction is a special feature of life
vyh organisms. Tectology takes the starting points for
own constructions, but is always forced to change the borrowed
concepts, adapting them to the universality of their tasks. 'That's how it was in
previous with the concept of “conjugation”,

| The universality of the selection scheme is such that it is obvious
applicable to every complex and to every part of it at every moment, -
for it is essentially just a certain point of view from which one can
approach any fact. A person lives, i.e. saved in its data
environment, therefore, between him and her there is a natural correspondence
sufficient for this purpose; he dies—hence this correspondence
no longer; This or that cell of his body lives as long as it is adapted to its
environment, i.e. first of all to the organism itself as a whole, and through it
and to the outside world, perishes when this ratio is sufficiently strong
collapsed; and also any element of the cell, any of its partial connections, etc.

Humanity in its practice constantly, at every step, uses
the same point of view in reality, i.e. meth worksselection ode. Even in special
social-biological sense. people half-consciously performed “artificial
selection of domestic animals and cultivated plants, producing the most
suitable forms of both for themselves, and they did this for thousands of years
Petia before “natural selection” was discovered: another illustration
tion of the inevitable identity of organizational methods of man and nature, A
in a general organizational sense, all production, all social struggle,
all the 'work' of 'thinking' is carried on continuously and steadily through the selection of:
systematic maintenance of complexes corresponding to vital
goals of people, the destruction of those contrary to these goals. {

Thus, people in all countries exterminate predators and other “pests”,
raise domestic animals and protect beneficial wild animals; destroyed
poisonous and “weedy” plants, vol.-6. useless in themselves, but
competing with useful ones - they cultivate useful plants that satisfy
creating human needs. The same is true for nature.
inorganic: people destroy or eliminate some complexes, preserve
others: they blow up rocks, sometimes tear down entire mountains, drain swamps,
lakes; protect, where necessary, from erosion of the coast, strengthening them separately,
etc. By extracting minerals and metals, man destroys only mechanical
ical ‘and chemical bonds of rocks, preserves others, already being:
that have been created ‘or conjugationally created by his’ efforts. This also applies
in general to the production of any product: it necessarily includes
moment of selection, which regulates the entire course of material changes along the way
to the final result; change corresponding to the task is saved
appears, not’ the corresponding is eliminated by a new influence. ` about

The struggle of classes and groups of society is always directed towards destruction
some social forms and relationships, maintaining and consolidating others, ©o-
figuratively to the interests of the collective leading the struggle. And plays no less role
selection in the process of thinking, where its two sides are expressed by concepts
"statements" and“denials”, thinking, thinking, solving a problem
owls lies ‘namely in the fact that of the many combinations entering into
field of thinking, some are accepted as “successful” or “true”, others.
are rejected as “erroneous” or “false”. I

The more complex the ‘and more difficult for people’ the task, the less prepared
the previous episode of '66' was a systematic decision, especially among
methods for achieving it comes to the fore, the selection mechanism, Bright
illustrations The entire history of scientific discoveries and inventions gives: long
“search”, which consists in the fact that a mass is formed by conjugation, a com-
combinations that are “negated” and eliminated one after another until,
one appears, completely corresponding to the task. to

g vx yang
No. 11-12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE 21

In the famous discovery of “006” by Ehrlich-Gath, the selection mechanism is
both the principle of decision and the method of searching. The first was to
kaiti agent, in this case - a chemical substance that would be
disastrous for pale spirochete, syphilitic microbe, c. significantly
to a greater extent than for the cells of the human body. Then, entering in
blood is a well-proportioned amount of this poison, a selection can be made,
in which the spirochetes will die, but the body cells will survive, and the reason
the disease will be destroyed. Ehrlich and Gata searched for such a substance by testing
various organic arsenic compounds and rejecting ‘one by one,
as unsuitable, until the six hundred and sixth attempt gave a satisfactory
nogo result, and nine hundred and eighteenth - c. some relationships still
the best. mi in ava ‹

For tectological studies, the selection mechanism must be clearly defined.
provide both in the 6th whole and in its parts. It decomposes into three
element:

1) The object of selection is what is subjected to it, like living organisms. V.
Darwin's diagram, buildings and structures in the example of an earthquake, displacement,
understanding of objects in the examples with an ear and a box of sugar, connections and relationships’
knowledge of things in technical labor selection, communication and correlation of people in
selectionsocial struggle, etc.; ha

2) an agent or selection factor - something that acts on an object, preserving it.
or destroying it, like the living environment in Darwin's scheme, mechanical,
fabric resistance in the example with a spike, similar resistance indus
gravity in the example with the box, human activity during production
selection, etc.; :

3) the basis or basis of selection - that side of the object on which it depends
preservation or elimination, i.e.: useful devices or traits of non-
fitness in “natural” selection, direction of movements in
examples with an ear and a box, compliance with human needs when,
technical selection, compliance with the structure of society - in social support
bore, etc. | m) y

The first selection scheme, in which it is only a matter of preserving the organization
ation forms or their preservation, can therefore be designated
the term is conservative selection. us -5®-

2. Mobile balance.

Tectology deals only with activities, and activities are characterized by
are called only by the fact that they produce changes. From this point of view, it is not
there may be talk of a simple and pure “preservation” of forms, such as it would be.
a real lack of change. Conservation is always only the result.
the fact that each of the resulting changes is balanced immediately
to others, opposite to it, it is the natural balance of changes.

‚ In its life activity, the body constantly spends, loses,
giving to the environment, their activities, in the form of the substance of their tissues.
and the energy of your organs. This does not prevent him from remaining, approximately, ,
practically, “the same”, i.e. persist. In return for what was spent, he...
just as continuously takes and assimilates its elements from the environment
activities, in the form of food, in the form of energy from the impressions received,
etc. Over the course of weeks and months, the composition of the chiefs is completely renewed.
ny, the most plastic tissues of our body, for several,
years—even the composition of his skeleton. Oi is preserved in the same wayin the same sense,
how the shape of a waterfall is preserved despite its constantly changing material
water. This is the mobile equilibrium of metabolism and energy between,
living or non-living complex and its environment.

It is endlessly widespread in nature; it alone makes it possible
‚ to find any stable complexes in it, without which it would have happened.
knowledge is generally unthinkable. And as science develops, more and more often

No.
22 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 11-13

It was discovered that where it seemed to naive perception. one
stability, immutability, in reality one movement reigns, which
two streams of opposing changes create a static illusion.
The body temperature remains the same only when it gives off
environment as many thermal vibrations as it receives from it, indifferent
the electrical state of the objects around us is only possible in this way. same
exchange of energy. The sea lives in the water cycle, which
gives to the atmosphere in the form of vapors, receives from it in the form of precipitation, and also
in the form of flowing rivers and streams that carry water sediments from the land; atmo-
the sphere has the same ‘circulation of its gases, in which it is maintained
chemical composition, etc.

Any chemical resistance, as scientific research deepens,
vaniya, everything else comes down to the balance of opposite, exchange cuts;
and there is every reason to believe that the same will be stable in the future.
responsiveness electronically. energy composition of atoms.

Previously, mobile balance was considered a special feature
living bodies, Biologists have given to its two sides, the two streams that form it,
names (assimilation - disassimilation, i.e., literally, “assimilation - disassimilation” -
assimilation." The first means the assimilation of elements from the external environment, with
in which they, being part of a given complex, form groups in it,
“similar” to his other groups are likened to them; second - once mastered
depletion of elements, their loss into the environment, whereby they enter into
new combinations, different from the previous ones, not similarthem. We have the same terms
will, of course, apply to all organized complexes, to all
possible tectological forms.

Mobile equilibrium is never absolutely precise: it can
be complete, unconditional equality of opposite changes; it always
only approximate, practical; in other words, movable equal-
weight or retention of shape is determined if the difference
assimilation - disassimilation is practically small enough that you can
was to neglect it, and consider the complex “the same”, preserved,
within the time frame relevant to the task. So, if it's about
man as a labor force, then it is taken to be a persistent, constant
For the most part, the maximum value for business calculations is possible.
matters of weeks, months, sometimes several years - but no more; & for precise
physiological research is completely different, and within the same framework it is discovered
there are quite perceptible changes in that
or, ate a side.

’° Tectology should consider any preservation of forms as their sub-
visual equilibrium, and any moving equilibrium, as a practically relative
physical equality of two processes, assimilation - disassimilation.

‚,

3. Professional selection.

So, there is no exact conservation, but approximate conservation
means only practically small changes, whether in the direction of an advantage of the as-
militation over disassimilation, ‘or a Already this makes the scheme of conservation
vative selection of scientifically insufficient. But this is not the only thing. It's hard to get into
generalize those cases when the form changes and develops progressively’
calling it simply “preservation” is inaccurate, and destruction, of course, is impossible.
And, meanwhile, it can be proven that the actual preservation of forms in
kind of possible only through their progressive development; godly “preserved”
"Nenie" inevitably comes down to destruction, even though it is imperceptible in its
slowness for ordinary modes of perception and exploration. And most-
the number of “preserved” complexes in our environmentYes is exactly in this situation
situation: they are slowly, imperceptibly destroyed for us.

In one Eastern fairy tale, the concept of eternity is given by such a comparison.
At the end of the world there is a diamond mountain, an hour's journey in length, width and height,
No. 11-12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 23

Once every hundred years a small bird flies there and stays for a minute.
pours on her and cleans his beak on her, when by repeating this
The operation will erase the whole mountain to the ground, then the first second will be blowjob
eternity. This image, of course, does not explain eternity: it negates the concept
tel. But it is obvious that if the diamond mountain does not experience other changes
other than those mentioned here, although from a practical point of view
From a visual perspective, it will remain for a very long time, but in a precise theoretical formulation
it must be recognized as a collapsing complex. It is very likely that the atoms
some chemical elements are destroyed at an even lower rate,
than this diamond mountain; but for the modern theory of the structure of matter there is
only the quantitative difference between the decay of such elements, and some
some emanation with an average atom lifespan of a small fraction of a second—
there is an indication of an emanation with a period of about one trillionth of a se-
kunda. In practice, fast and slow destruction have very different
significant value for us; but in scientific analysis this is a difference of only one
coefficient

Suppose we could establish that complex A is completely different
is destroyed, but does not experience changes in the other direction, in the sense
the preponderance of assimilation over ‘non-assimilation, that is, an increase in the amount of assets
news In this case, we would have before us a pure, ideal state.
tiku; but it is easy to see that she could not resist, and inevitably
would be reduced to decline. Complex A is located in a given, specific environment,
in complete mobile balance with it; and only while this environment remains
by its very nature, it is guaranteed to be part of it. But the environment cannot be
equally unconditionally stable: it is connected with the global flow of events,
and under strict aOnce it is completed, it ultimately unfolds throughout the entire military
linen; it therefore necessarily changes. Obviously then
The relationship of complex A to its environment also changes. Can these changes
be favorable to him? Yes, but only randomly and, therefore,
only temporarily. In general, changes in the environment that occur independently of it
are immeasurably more often unpleasant for him; for the number of possibilities is unfavorable
pleasant, as evidenced by the entire experience of mankind, are incomparably more
than favorable; this can be explained by the probability that the ship,
left without a rudder and sails, will be carried by storms and currents to where
he needs it. Consequently, in a changing environment, the static position of the
plexa 4 inevitably turns into unfavorable; preponderance of losses
assimilation, successive decline. ”

'' Thus, to preserve in a changing, i.e., ultimately,
In any environment, simple exchange equilibrium is not enough. The only thing
what can provide a relative guarantee of preservation is an increase in the amount
activities, preponderance of assimilation: then new adverse effects
meet no same & increased resistance. This is the way
Nature goes on in the matter of preserving life forms, and man in his collection
active self-preservation: through the growth of comilexes, accumulation of a reserve of active
news, Every step away from Cancer is an opportunity to maintain
life under changing conditions. In other words, a dynamic element
The preservation of the complex is an increase in its activities due to the environment.

In the same way, the dynamic element of destruction must be represented in
in the form of a decrease in the activities of the complex, their removal from the environment.
The fact of the destruction of the complex, its disappearance, is the result. process, _
sometimes quite complex, but from the quantitative side of the speaker it is
as a decrease in the sum of activities-resistances. Destruction can be restored
accepted as “instantaneous”, e.g., crushing of a block by a blow of steam
hammer, or the termination of the life of an organism by dischargehouse of lightning; but it depends
only from the imperfection of certain methods of perception. Theoretically, ‘i.e., ›
scientifically, each such event is decomposed into a continuous series of changes,
successively reducing the sum of the elements of the complex. Breaks in connections

\5
24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 11-in

forming the content of the process, arise, as we know, from disingressions,
paralyzing the resistance of the comilex with activities opposite to them,
destructive for him, tectologically ‘external’ 1). Each one is like this
disingression develops through the successive invasion of these external
activities, fast or slow - for the generalizing scheme it makes no difference.
invasion, paralyzing, vol.-6. practically taking away, disassimilating
own elements-activities of the complex,

“We are coming to a new understanding of selection based on the idea of sub-,
visual balance and deviations from it. This scheme is wider and deeper; she
covers both the progressive development of compieks and their relative decline
dock; it decomposes the processes of preservation and destruction into their elements. Pe
it is most expedient to express the term “progressive selection”:
this is significant when the sum of activities of the complex increases, i.e., when there is an excess
assimilation over disassimilation; negative - when the amount decreases
activities, i.e. the prevalence of disassimilation?).. E ‹,

Here is one of the simplest examples of such selection.

“In the hollow of a leaf lies a drop of dew, From its surface continuously
water molecules are removed into the air, “evaporating” (disassimilation), and in
at the same time, other molecules are deposited on it from the atmosphere (assimilate-
tion). In a saturated humid atmosphere, both processes are equal, and it is obvious
there is a moving equilibrium. When the air is oversaturated with moisture, for example,
Due to the decrease in temperature, vapor deposition predominates:
the drop increases; it is progressive selection in a positive form.
When the saturation of the atmosphere with vapor becomes incomplete, then
evaporation; it seeks to destroy the drop; this is a negative form of pro-
gpresseffective selection 3)“.

Other examples: cell growth in a favorable environment that gives it
the preponderance of nutrition over the consumption of matter and energy; gradual decrease
the contents of the cell, its “emaciation” in an environment poor in food. The growth of society
organization of human forces when production is greater than consumption;
reduction in the amount of social activities in the opposite case, increase
amount of heat in a physical body when it absorbs more than
gives back to the environment; decrease - when losses predominate, Increase in tone, ed’
generated by the resonator until a greater amount of energy reaches it, in
in the form of waves corresponding to its period and, therefore, assimilable
to them than the quantity which it gives out in the form of waves emanating from it;
weakening of tone under opposite conditions, etc. %.

‚ The results of progressive selection are expressed, first of all,
of course, by searching for or reducing the number of elements of the complex; increase or
the reduction of the elements themselves comes down to the same thing if these elements are in
sufficiently analyze further, decomposing into smaller and simpler
shy, For example, a positive selection for an adult organism may not be consistent.
be accompanied by an increase in the number of its cells, but come down to the growth of these

1) In teutology, the word “external” does not have a spatial meaning, Bacteria in
body, poisons that enter its blood represent complexes in the organizational
sense not’ “internal”, but external for him, because they do not belong in his sense
organizational connections, and those parts of the system that come out of its organizational ones”
skizey, at least the space was inside the ate, gabzhe. should be considered as
otavigia by tectologically external, For example, cancer cells, tissue developing in counter-
speech `in the vital connections of the body; a criminal with whom society fights as 6
external force; and', 'under, But, and in this 'case,' and 'in all others, namely 'conversation'—
since“: organizational connection is relative prestuinic, e.g. outside of this connection
to the extent thatwhy does he violate it? in the rest of its activities. he can do better
him“ to belong to her.

?) The word “selection” here obviously deviates from its original meaning; but it
most of all corresponds to the internal meaning of the expressed relationships and their connection with
the previous circuit. “Progressive” here is not taken from the word “progress”; and from („pro-
“gression,” that is, a continuous series of events moving in one direction or another.

'.. 3) "Teutology", part T, etr. 68.
No. 11.12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 25

cells; but the latter means an increase in the amount of chemical and physical
activities; included in the composition of cells, and, consequently, in the composition of the body,
as a whole. - But these quantitative results of selection are far from exhaustive -
get things done. and

“A dew drop has the shape of a ‘slightly flattened eplipeoid, close to
ball. This form depends on its general structure, in particular on the ratio
the relationship between the gravity of particles and their adhesiveness; surface layer, thanks to
clutch, represents a kind of stretched film, which supports
lives in the form of a drop. In air supersaturated with moisture, the volume of the drop increases;
but with 'sufficiently accurate observation it is easy to notice that 'changes and
form: it’s becoming more and more powerful. This obviously means that
changes: the very structure of the drop. Yueli positive selection continues,
then the flattening of the ellipsoid is accompanied by its gradual elongation
along one axis; and finally, the drop breaks. Accumulating changes in
internal structure led to a crisis.

The selection is negative - in our example, gradual evaporation
drops --- also ‘changes its shape, which indicates changing
internal relationships: The shape of the drop becomes more and more regular;
more and more. close to an exact ball; and finally, progressive ‘decrease’
drops cause it to’ disappear: another crisis.

That. The same applies to any other case of progressive selection:
s. by adding new or decreasing old elements, the internal
friction relationship of the complex, its pagestructure Processes in a living cell
growth change molecular bonds, which is expressed first in some
variations in its form, and then in its disintegration into equal daughter cells,
or in separating parts from it by “budding”, etc.; in case of insufficient
the influx of matter and ‘energy behind changes in shape’ is sometimes observed differently
destruction. cells, ‘sometimes formation around it’. protective shell with
weakening. of the entire life exchange, sometimes the formation of disputes with similar
shells, etc. The superiority of assimilation of ‘thermal energy’ over ‘losses’
also causes the transformation of molecular bonds in physical bodies,
leading to crises of melting, boiling, - and sometimes even transformation of atoms -
nal bonds leading to chemical reactions. Increasing changes everywhere
structures that, at a certain level, turn into crises.

In the most general form, it is possible to determine the nature of these structures -
new changes; With a positive selection; as we have seen, the shape of a drop
becomes ‘less regular and geometrically more complex. At the same time. time
It turns out that a drop is easier to separate. into parts; its resistance times"
the tear is relatively reduced; and then, with sufficient growth, she herself
is torn apart by the force of its gravity 1); All; this obviously indicates the age
growing complexity and heterogeneity of the internal relations of the complex. This
true ‘for all other similar cases, and it’s clear a rg!og!: again
the incoming Elements, bursting into previous connections, of course, complicate them and
violated their homogeneity, since it existed.

Under the negative selection, the shape of the drop is made geometrically
more correct and simpler, and its tear resistance increases relatively,
This indicates a simplification of the internal structure and an increase in its homogeneity:
trend; the opposite of the previous one. And it is just as easy to understand:
decrease under the influence of the environment, primarily the elements are less durable
associated with the whole, the connections of which thereby reduced the homogeneity of this
whole, and a decrease in the number of connections and an increase in onekinship just
means simplifying the structure.
) The reason is that the droplet shape is supported precisely by the surface layer of the mo-
lekul, its tension. But this superficial baby, according to the laws of geometry, does not grow
as fast as the volume of the drop, & with it the weight. The pressure of its particles that deforms the drop
depends precisely on their severity; it therefore increases faster than with
film development; the ratio of both determines the changing shape of the drop,
& then its disintegration - when its gravity exceeds the adhesion force of the film.

H
26 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 11-12

These characteristics are valid within the limits until the selection is
leads to crisis; and then the comparison is made difficult by the fact that the form itself
is recognized as being qualitatively different than before; and the direction of selection
can change dramatically For example, the industrial-capitalist system pro-
production under conditions of positive selection - the so-called. "prosperity" -
had some certain properties; & with the onset of the “industrial crisis”
zis" these properties are abruptly replaced by others, but the sign of selection is also made
negative *),

Although, as we have seen, the conservative selection scheme is less perfect,
than progression, but it does not follow from this that it is always more correct and purposeful
It makes more sense to use the second one. It is connected, both in practice and in theory, specifically
tsialno with issues of development of data, existing complexes. Therefore, she especially
It is especially important and useful where practically our actions can
depend on such development, or where it is theoretically subject to research.
An example of the first is pedagogy, whose task is precisely
in mastering the development of the body of a future member of society,
systematically manage and direct this process. Example of the second - in
psychology theory of the formation of the individual psyche, in social
sciences—theory of economic development, theory of ideologies, etc. *).

In those cases where there are existing complexes, according to practical conditions,
task or within the framework of research, do not develop to any extent.
noticeably in one direction or another, but only serve as ready-made material
for more complex formations, it is necessary to apply a conservation scheme
tive selection. Examples are many cases in practice,
when it is necessary to isolate from the available material what is suitable for
set goal—gold from a rock or raft, workers for a certain
one of the masses offering their services, the best ways or methods
from among the possible, etc. There are many illustrations in the field of theory
statistically massive cases, such as the propagation of waves with mutual destruction
marrying the vast majority of vibrations and preserving those that go
along a few specific lines; the impact of drastic environmental changes on
flora and fauna; the impact of historical disasters on the structure of society, etc.

It is quite obvious that the regulatory mechanism is not something separate
from the formative mechanism: with sufficient analysis, any process
positive or negative selection is decomposed into countless
elementary changes—conjugation with the aggressions arising from them
and disingressions. In essence, these are two different points of view in tectological
com research; they are both necessary and complement each other. Having mastered
them in the most general terms, we can move on to a closer study

understanding of actual organizational processes
I. 'Bogdanov,

1) In mathematical analysis there is a special symbol giving expressions, progressively
selection of “quantities”, i.e., measured complexes; it's a derivative. When she knows
plus means positive selection; minus sign is negative, when it turns
goes to zero or to infinity or is interrupted or changes its sound - this is with
there are no crises of magnitude. The simplest example: when a body moves, the derivative
Distance ‘in time there is speed. When ‘it is greater than zero, dissolution increases’
when it is less than zero, it decreases; when it is zero, it is a crisis of stopping the movement,
it...

9) In relation to theories of mental development and, partly, pelagogy, I alreadye
succeeded in showing how many important conclusions can be drawn from the systematic application of
progressive selection schemes (see “Hectology”, part 1, pivza about thedonic selection,

etr. 75-89, and “Emiiriomoniam*, book 1, the entire article “Ioiichical selection”, where the question
| -ir and in more detail, but 'tectological techniques have not yet been fully developed),
This will be the subject of an episode from the short series “Essay on organization, spiders,”

No. 11-12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 27

Proletarianization of science.

We are facing a fait accompli: savagery has been proclaimed in Russia.
the tattoo of the proletariat and in the name of the class of prodetarians is carried out colossally
their tasks, the work of transforming the entire economic and cultural
life of the country. And no matter how difficult the first steps of this work may be, no matter how
The feasibility ratio of many of our undertakings sometimes turned out to be bad,
no matter what unexpected social transformations one or another undergoes
some of them, the fact remains: all this is colossal in its tasks
the work is carried out in the name of the proletariat.

And however, with a more careful analysis of social groupings. and
For neoplasms, the picture turns out to be somewhat different. t

The work that is being carried out in the name of the proletariat is largely
Most of it is not done with his hands and not with his brain. Because until then
until education becomes universal and “diploma qualifications” disappear
workers, most of the organizational work has to be done by the will of
will to lead by the hands of bourgeois mercenaries, or groundless intellectuals
tents, This is usually not seen as a big misfortune, because everything is done
“under the control” of the proletariat. This is the usual logic of superficial observations.
givers and busy people, always in a hurry somewhere, who have no time
to think deeply about the essence of the phenomena unfolding before their eyes. But
social dynamics have their own laws; everything flows, everything changes, and tomorrow*
This day is no longer similar to the present; already reworked the new ones in my own way
facts of social life injected some new current into the social environment,
changing in one way or anotherrelation to the grouping of social forces.

the same thing this ever-flowing and changing day brings to us in relation to
the development of the proletariat to the most important of organizational tools. social
life - science?

Universities have been “democratized.” Their doors are wide open for
everyone, and a motley assortment of the most diverse social
elements already fills their audience. Its main core is, of course,
the former bourgeois-intellectual “academic” youth, striving
receive diplomas and become professionals and artisans of science,
And in this motley bourgeois-intellectual mass they are completely erased
and the few who can get there due to the conditions of their work disappear
letarian elements. Yes, it cannot be otherwise; because a change has happened
only that they opened the doors of universities to everyone, but from
social conditions and social
the possibilities of those who wish. The vast majority of the university is still
accessible only to future professionals and artisans of science. herself
“freedom” of access there also does little to guarantee a real opportunity
to get there for the proletarians, how the “freedom” to work provided them with work

in a capitalist system. The proletariat, as a class, does not have access to the highest

our school, And individual, emerging here and there in the provinces of the “proletarian-
"Universities" are in most cases only surrogates
such

And therefore, whatever the prospects for future generations, the young
the previous generation of the proletariat on this decisive day in history, even. not
came even closer to mastering the most powerful of all organizational weapons -
nization of social life—science. .

“Word and illusions perish, facts remain.” And the fact of preserving science
in the hands of its artisans - people from the bourgeoisie - appears on its own, on its own
much more decisive and valid than all sorts of p.10va and idayuan
on the accessibility of higher education.

_ There is only one outcome from this situation - an independent organization.
class centers of science, where flightRussian youth would receive higher

5

“
28 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 11-12

neck education as scholarship holders to states would not be dissolved
at the same time, in a motley mass of bourgeois and innocent elements. Span" -
The riat must create such organizational centers for itself according to the right of class -
the conqueror and the duty of the organizing class. a
And the amount of energy and efficiency that will be invested in the work
to create ‘proletarian universities’ will be one of the main
quantities that will determine the derived quantity - the speed of our
approaching a higher rate of feasibility of our transformations
votive beginnings, cabbage soup.
the yoke of 'But' the creation of independent class centers of scientific thought is
Xx is only the first step towards the proletarianization of science, it is only an organizational
This is a prerequisite for actual work on the proletarianization of science. Before-
let us assume that new universities have been created, how will we maintain them?
Are we full? What new wine that we did not want to pour into “old wineskins”,
Are we going to pour new ones into these “mechs”?
Each era of spider development corresponds to those social tasks
which are put forward by the social formation of the era itself. The tasks of science are determined
Ultimately they are the tasks of the ruling classes. Bourgeois
the revolution of the previous social era gave a memory at the dawn of its days in
evohu encyclopedias a number of brilliant theorists who sought to revolutionize
first of all, the entire worldview of people as a whole, all their views on society
I explore life and nature. Encyclopedists were not encyclopedists
only in form, but also in essence, for their task was to
transforming 6660 people's scientific and social thinking, It was a whirlwind,
introduced the feudal worldview to its very foundation and created the ideological
the history of the bourgeoisie as a revolutionary class. But as the bourgeoisie
became the ruling class, “epcyclopedism” gradually died out.
Colossal work on the development of all kinds of
special technical disciplines. Century of steam andelectricity entered into
his rights: but what he, in his bourgeois phase, brought in the first place,
was, together with the sober practicality of the new leaders of life, extreme
specialization of thinking, narrowing of its horizons,
The PT school of natural-historical materialism was, of course, an ideological
the fundamental foundation of all work, for without the same foundation it was unthinkable
would’ and development of applied and technical problems. But the main task.
era was the solution to a huge number of private technical
Later, the emergence of the school of historical materialism already marked the
the destruction of the ideology of the new class that entered the historical arena—
class that produces 'values, but is deprived of property and therefore
who is the bearer of the socialist worldview. What are those va-
dans which this class puts or can put for itself when it masters-.
deals with political power? | Rau
The implementation of 'socialism' is, first of all, 'planned unification'.
hi bringing all individual,
elements of economic life. All the experience accumulated in individual industries,
Poles' economy and technology must be connected into such a harmonious system,
which takes into account the complex dependence of each element of the economic
life og everyone else and thus determines the most harmonious
from all possible combinations of them with each other. b
The work ‘previously done by specialists in relation to the department
large complex machines, individual technical systems, etc., must
be done on a universal scale in relation to howl
basic elements of farming and technology. If the anarchist economy is
capitalism was an economy of fragmented experience and unsystematic connection,
In the absence of a number of independent systems, then socialism is, on the contrary, an economy of inte-
it is rational to combine experience into a single system of all individual systems,
'created in certain sectors of the economy and technology. “ W
No. 11-12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 529

With what preparationone can and should approach the solution to the problem
problems? There is no doubt that it can only be solved
or long-term—scientific and practical—work of the whole. generations.
Still, the question is relative. the speed of its solution. There is. V. significant
to a certain extent the question of evocation. a new type of thinking - mentality, which had
there is very little chance of developing in a world of fragmented experience. Higher Zikola‹
capitalism, taken in its most characteristic | manifestations, was a school
‘social thinking and a school for training specialists. Of course
It could contain other elements in s666, but they were already elements
random and unstable. The main task of the university. was created
discussion of specialists of a particular science, or branch of science, specialists,
turned in practice into artisans. The last word from such a factory
specialists, there were already all kinds of technical schools and special institutes
Tutas are completely legal institutions in any system, because... they
would be only an addition to what was previously received. broad, general image
vocation, but in reality they completely tore away |
their pets.from everything that was not associated with the development of special
skills and professional tasks. AO tsya a mo
“A thought trained in this way has, of course, very few chances.
to successfully solve the problems of socialism, economy and socialism
chesky culture. “Specialists” cannot be builders. socialism and
even transitional forms of life preparatory to it, for nature, their
thinking is in too glaring contradiction with the main tasks
socialists. Meanwhile, our institutions regulating national economic
new life is served by people. fragmented experience, and all
sort of more or less narrow specialists. me i E
"'Strength. and nearby problems of the national economy are solved, not. in, their, tse",
flattering. scale, not in the direction of finding connections and dependencies. between
individual aspects of economic life, and how. problemdepartmental ones,
existing ai ip@.g, 51, i.e., exactly in the way that only they can be solved
people of fragmented experience. Exchange, prices, consumption, food, for-
wages, transport, industry - everything is considered until now
as a series of separate problems independent of each other, I don’t think so,
that we do not understand the dependence of their friend on Oru, as well. because we are not +
We can do this. determine and calculate. That's the legacy. zodiac. farms
and his higher school. National economy in the present transitional period
history, is for us only a mechanical, the sum of a “series” of individual
greatness, but by no means a complex organized sum of them, I take into account -
... the functional dependence of each individual value on ‹ all
ZODARNYH floor. and lake mind vionia. n some o Ia a lot
“We haven’t, we’ve only just reached such a higher mathematics of economics.”
niya, we don’t even know how to raise the question about it. And this is to blame before
In general, our thinking, accustomed only to orientation in the field of narrowly specialized
tsialnyh, strictly fenced off from the rest of the world, questions. . ,
“New universities should strive, first of all, to create a
wandering. a completely different type of thinking. people who will have to reach
with your own thoughts and solve problems, not partial problems, Dedtel ka.
there was no citalist peace. nothing to do with the result, her
will ultimately turn out in the general social masditab, separate from all of them
ny actions. and undertakings, U, the socialists task. anticipate such outcomes
should, on the contrary, be in the foreground. about ar. od +
.. In a developed socialist system, the degree of complexity and integrity
human thinking will probably be such that even, very. diversity
These educated people of our system will appear in comparison with these people 1
>. 2 And through whatever detailing the technology still had to go through
production and exchange, the ability to summarize these. Ihogi ts, constantly perceived

\©
80 PROLETARIAN CULTURE No. 11-12

them not ap and tig 96th, and as part of a powerful whole, will be distinctive
the traits of these future people.

And since such a task has been set, since we are trying to organize
new economy, we must first of all change the entire
tone of the highest proletarian school. Opa must educate and guide

[people of integral experience, and this is achieved primarily by software
integrity of education. The first year of work cannot be divided into separate

ny faculties, and should mi tudenton an kings of science, in the field of
knowledge of the world as a whole. in may therefore be limited to one or
another separate area of cognition, but should include all the most important areas
to achieve it: elements of the natural, social and mathematical sciences must
here go hand in hand, like mutually complementary parts of one
and the same majestic building. Second year, being in the program from!;0-
In addition to the first, it introduces a new element: the first year is
for the student the year of introductions, the second - the year of introduction to scientific methods
‚ long. The conclusions and results of scientific work are not communicated to the student,
and the very methods of obtaining them. In all areas of scientific thinking he
the key to independent research is given into your hands—the methodology of scientific
. work. A thought brought up on such cognitive material will be extremely
extremely far from fragmentation and limitation. In the third year,
True, it is already assumed to ‘concentrate the student’s thoughts on more
social scientific cycles, and in the future it is possible, of course, a transition to
areas of certain special disciplines; but a gradual transition to
special branches of ‘science cannot kill the students’ developed
holistic thinking skills. In whatever special field he may be assigned
was going to work, his thought will strive not only to master this area;
* stuyu, but also to determine its role in the general economy of people's life: in the system
technology, economics and culture. And for the “builder of socialism” such a skill
should be in the foreground. Class universities of the proletariatthey will create
Thus, not only a new audience, but also a new program of work,

The new audience is an audience made up of people who produce
of great labor, from the morn of values, and not from the consumers of pieces, of which until now
in the vast majority of cases the audience consisted of bourgeois universities

’ tet. For them, science will be a way to obtain a diploma and a professional title.
artisan of mental labor, but something else—a way of organizing social
real labor and the development of a new ideology of the building class. x

The new program is a program for developing holistic thinking,
which is an essential element in creating an organized apparatus
farms of the future. The ability to cover individual branches of human
experience, to grasp their connection and dependence among themselves, to bring them into a single
a harmonious and holistic system—this is the most important task of education, which
pursues the program of the higher school of the proletariat.

But, they will tell us, the field of knowledge is almost limitless; give to students— .
even those from the productive labor class have the opportunity to become acquainted with
deal with the totality of scientific experience within a regular university-
It's absolutely impossible for a fucking whore: a whole human being wouldn't be enough for that.

; Life. dto is one of those generally accepted opinions that are accepted by everyone
` on faith, and which turn out to be haleko neo always true with more viima-
respectful attitude towards them. If we are talking about facts and conclusions in all their
completeness, with all its particulars, then a whole human life is not enough
not only to get acquainted with many scientific disciplines, but even,
perhaps, and with one of them. But this is not about facts,
not about particular conclusions or results, but about research methods and methods
generalizations within a number of individual sciences. And since the methods of scientific
Works are tested in individual areas of scientific knowledge, to the extent

their existence is a generalizing and connecting moment, not only
making the work easier, but also giving it harmony and integrity,
`No. 11-2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE,81

‚ (Thus, discarding the Western scholastics, all conditional r unrealistic
important elements of science that still play a role in some areas of science
such a prominent place, the proletarian university sets itself the task of healing
methods of scientific work for the class of productive labor. The proletariat receives
n his hands ‘this is the most precious heritage of the past, which is in his hands
becomes a tool for carrying out new tasks—tasks ‘that were not set
itself, so far not a single ‘social class’. But once they are created
proletarian+clausian centers. science with such a program and with such tasks
niyami; then their existence for some time will probably lead to
and to new groupings of scientific forces and to new scientific trends. In what.
what will these last consist of?

Here we come close to the question of the so-called “prole-
Tara science." This term causes quite a bit of ridicule and ecoietheniou t4
visual shrugs. What is this special proletarian science? Not-
Can there really be a special proletarian geometry or proletarian
chemistry? These questions are, of course, the fruit of either simple reluctance
think about the essence of the matter, or the desire to slip arguments to the enemy,
which are not in his arsenal,

Let the defenders of geometry, chemistry, etc., calm down. Not a single one
defender of proletarian universities and those new scientific movements that
will be the result of their existence is not going to encroach on the
significant acquisitions of these venerable sciences. Oxygen © hydrogen, compound
given in the proper proportions will also provide water in the proletarian university,
and not carbon dioxide, but an equation of the second degree of the proper form with two
variables will give a parabola there, and not a straight line.

The question of transforming such sciences is not posed on that plane at all.
A significant number of theorems of elementary geometry have been known since
times of Euclid, but the role they played in applied science, or rather,
the extent to which they were used in scientific technology varied enormously
in various historicalRussian eras, depending on the general development of technology
in one era or another; and no less than that, their place, their role in general is different
people's worldview,

And therefore, if we use the term “proletarian geometry”—and it
has been used so far only by opponents of the proletarian university in
form of ridicule—it can be understood in two directions: 1) conscious
new maximum use of geometric truths in all industries
scientific technology, since the latter sets itself the task of solving a problem
socialist economy and 2) conscious maximum use
geometric analysis in order to develop a holistic harmonic
thinking, including, of course, geometric thinking itself, having freed itself
from its former isolation, can only gain a lot in the sense
depth and clarity.

Consequently, the point is not in reshaping old truths in a new way, but
in a new task. Even geometry must cease to exist
MS, even this specific and special discipline should become part of
a huge and harmonious whole - the science of socialism. And you just have to come
even to geometry with such a task to put it on completely different rails:
coming to throw out a lot of verbal scholasticism from this venerable science,
which was still taught to children in schools, and to emphasize and bring out in it
the very essence of its methods and techniques.

The first spider that went through the crucible of “proletarianization” was eco-
nomics And this work was accomplished by the hands of Marx and his disciples. Time
there can be no difference between scholastic economics and proletarian economics,
Of course, ignore none of Marx's disciples. New tasks, new
methods, new formulation of the question. They were put forward by the ideologist of the flyover
riat in the era of its first class associations and appeared, as it were, promulgating
heralds of revision of scientific tasks and scientific methods in general,

A+
32 NORLETARIAN CULTURE. /No..11-2

Ro
.. “The bourgeoisie and its ideologists are quite confident, however, that ‘that
with all its conquests and methods, work --- sdput it! property of her claos
And is its instrument. gosiodotva] Non-class scientists of the ‘academic
like he likes to talk about the “eternal values” of non-class naumi. But sleep itself
in fact, all the major work to obtain these “eternal values”, if opa
and was produced by the hands of selfless seekers and researchers, then ‘completely
was crazy, that is. no less than c. a certain socio-historical environment, ‘and
therefore, willingly or unwillingly, she served that social cause, ‘which
This class was the class that organized all social life. And of course in
in the ranks of scientists, along with a few selfless seekers, there has always been
a sufficient number of apologists, defenders, etc. executors of the will of the government
class. The anarchist economy could not correspond to fragmentation
scientific laziness. thoughts, because the bourgeoisie as an organizing class did not have
qi could not exist, the task of creating a planned economy and an integral scientific
worldview. nitahn zhu

It is difficult to say with certainty how close we are at the moment to
implementation of a socialist economy, but the fact is; what we put
themselves this problem, or rather, they were forced to pose it. "Disorgan-
ation process, now taking place on a global scale, speaks in its
“Issues of Socialism” A. Bogdanov 1) undoubtedly and obviously poses. before
humanity an organizational task on a global scale.’ How can
be solved this “organizational task on a global scale?” Implements
firstly by introducing two necessary prerequisites for its solution: 1) powerful
class organization of the proletariat and 2) all-scientific development of the question of
implementation of socialism. ,

“The vast majority of sciences,” says A. Bogdanov in the same “Questions”
Socialism *)“, has developed so far without the slightest connection with the question of
world economic plan; exactly. two or three from the social sciences
raised this question at all, and of them only economics dealt with it
seriously, although far from systematically. The situation is quite understandable if
take into account whose pscientists carried out the development of sciences and how needed
she satisfied her...

And science served the needs of organizations of two main types:
private economy and the state. The first is built on individualism, the second
swarm mainly on authoritarian communication; both types, therefore,
are opposite and hostile to the comradely collective.”

And so the science of the future faces the question of conscious whitening
life, its society, which is a “comradely collective,” and before
science of the present day—setting a new ‘task’ for oneself: solutions, ‘ve-scientific
don't give a damn about socialism: ; Niva

Let all Euclid's theorems and all laws remain unshakable. fi-
chemistry and chemistry, but physics, chemistry and mathematics should be involved in
use of all these theorems and laws for integral solutions’ of this
problems. This is what the “proletarianization” of science consists of. Of course, staging
New assignments entail a revision of all work methods.

This is the urgent task of the present day for the socialist movement. thoughts,

“It is clear that this is not the work of a separate group of people, but of an entire generation,
But the sooner the question is raised and realized, the sooner this
the work of the next generation. //we can leave it as 'of course, and 'separately'
famous people, and a group of them, but in public. scale it may be
set and realized only insofar as organizational
prerequisites for solving it. And these organizational prerequisites
Only proletarian universities can appear, because they are ours. old temples
sciences are unlikely to be able to deliver. realize these problems for yourself

7) Questions of Social Affairs, Sir. 49;
3) Page 26, +7.
No. 11-412 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. 38

them and take up their decision: We hardly say, although on the grounds of all
available data ‘on the ‘resolution’ of ‘this issue’, we ‘should have immediately
r ily it about they ‘will not’ be able to’ raise ‘this question. “It follows
yes, leave a little space ‘for’ some ‘unforeseen opportunities,
according to the theory of certainties, the relationships for thesefrom the foreseen ‘possibility without-
of course. small. And therefore, with every desire ‘for accuracy and ‘for accounting
even eternally small ones. magnitudes Nuno “still” ‘start? 6 zirobionA,
‘proletarian’ universities. There is no other way
True, the path to this’ construction comes through the
thick. mistrust ‘and misunderstanding, or; what's even worse, a frivolous pony-
mania and casual trust. But this is the story of ‘everyone is really new’
These are the beginnings, new in spirit and in concept, but only in form.
good luck in their first endeavors and ridicule that will be showered on innovators
have. in the public 'meaning and' his own. what is the useful side: they ‘separate both
serious and convinced supporters of the new idea. from 'random ` MI et'o
‘and all kinds of careerists and businessmen who inevitably attach themselves to the idea
‘proletarian culture, as in general to all new’ undertakings. akim
So the ranks of supporters of the new initiative are thinning, but... getting stronger: high quality.
“A cohesive group of people is being created that is able to ‘resist the wave of under-
‘belief, misunderstanding. and’ ridicule and continue’ homo msivootsi, et tsv k
‘implementation of the idea in more favorable times.
“Oh Shchyurd, these favorable times” will come, then “all your opponents
They will become supporters and declare: “This is our rum?
“The fact was that it will be so and they will kill you about: kala
'So it will be. not an idea. flybyrevikh rariraeeev, like orteriokiylinini
centers. for implementation. sonerik MT one infantry
neither and fe ° i
‚ IIA 5 LITYRKK; iv voe, and vn from
r we im 8 $4 } 4%

0 ‘petod aata v. ah k >

At `Ours. readers. known;: that." ‚proletkults: ‘unlike’ others
cultural and educational organizations focus their attention on
creative side. cult: 2nd work and are based strictly on class
Roletarian content. They create conditions for the manifestation of creative
possibilities of the proletariat, as a result of which certain prices are created
proletarian awn. culture. Work. placed in laboratory, studio
way, i.e.more. organized, and therefore most consciously
but, methodically, research and teaching are steadily carried out, as well as
It is wrong for the proletariat, which is aware of its class position, to carry out its work.
Summing up the results of the two-year work of the proletcults, we must admit that
its results. significantly less than we expected. The work was carried out
more in breadth and less in depth, For this; Certainly; there are reasons that
lie in the general conditions of the moment being experienced: And yet, despite
all excusable circumstances, we must note that in very rare cases
With exceptions, proletkults carried out their work on a whim. ‹Conscious pro-
etariyami varnish. work should not be carried out. Don't forget a single minute
mandatory. diya of the socialists. truths that everyone: practical valley mines
you must be bound by our common stical tasks.
in most of our proletkults, my couples are simply in. ku. ur.
but pro-education, as it was once conducted by our fathers and grandfathers.
build studios, teach simple, ordinary literacy’ in the field of this or’ teas
‘art, are carried away by the form of bourgeois artists, etc. ‘everyone uses
efforts to achieve exactly. this ‘form. “Irisotome is often taken and
material is pure. bourgeois, Other leaders and instructors pro-

Proletarian Culture, No. 11-12. $

1%
84 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 11-12

petkult are fond of folk art’ etc. they want to give him away as a “proletarian”
skoe. It’s time to put an end to all this, the dominance in child cults
The moats of intellectuals, imbued with our culture, serve. but eritn co-
knowledge of the proletarian, but not development. If we 'want consciously' and 'alano-
‘measuredly create a proletarian culture; we must also in the field of cultural
educational, as well as political, to carry out. dictatorship of the proletariat
ta. With the infection of intellectual hypocrisy eaten by bourgeois art and
science must be carried out mercilessly and without umbrella ‚Prende everything: it’ must. on-
to participate in proletkults,

When the bourgeois poet Balmont, screaming againstin the class ‘understanding’
knowledge of art, said: a poet is as free as... bird; she flies Wherever. lev-
Even her instinct, yes. and a poet, there are no laws for him, he. sings when and. What. wants. The bourgeois intelligentsia enthusiastically greeted and clapped the
saturated with the refined pleasures of the poet’s lies. We think; that's sweet
‘the poet’s songs will not lull’ the will! of workers of muscular ‘labor,’ soaked in. meat-
gentle spirit of class position and imbued with implacable ‘hatred’
respect for the invaders of private property, which they have made a tool
cruel oppression. The beauty of Balmont's poetic poetry will not seduce the workers.
sneeze. Workers know well that they are conscious beings and have
lei. We do not go where instinct takes us, but where we need to go, where
consciousness ‹ class position, & ‘possession’ of will shows the way. gives
we have the opportunity to overcome obstacles on the ‘path, no matter how they may be
difficult. Therefore, our art, our poetry, must be conscious
appropriate expression. If Balmont, whom nature has endowed
rare ability to easily express in a beautiful form all the curves and
hi of his soul, if, with these abilities, he set himself as an ideal
to reap the freedom of unconscious birds, from our point of view. he's criminally
squandered his talent on beautiful trash, the content of which is not re-
the consciousness of the birds entered. For the workers, bourgeois poets cannot serve
model, they are infected with the pale infirmity of their class, which in art
and ideology in general reflected all the emptiness of his soul, because he
bourgeois ideology has no prospects, except (perspectives) of a foggy mystical
cism and everything mysterious. Technology and ©10 process of production have long been
have outgrown the idol of their life—private property, which every day
development of technology is becoming more and more irreconcilably contradictory to it.
Whoa. My this. bourgeois! ideologues of all stripes and are afraid of consciousness, which,
reflecting. the logic of itia production’ and the world of movie zooviniyau
the destruction of their private propertyness. ' to

The proletariat has a completely opposite attitude towards consciousness—for it. ©o-
knowledge is a tool. through whose help he understands his class position
understanding, and draws conclusions about where to go and how to go. Stealing class; 'can't
and you must create art other than that which serves
organization of his struggle and organization of images of his ideal, to which he
strives. The expression of all this in 'art can be endless
diverse: it reflects the class “struggle”; and spiritual connection; and
the beauty of external nature, and all this drow en u and grew up as an artist
may be related to his ‘ideal.

With all our might. souls we’re in need of sleep from the corrupting
and the pernicious influence of bourgeois art. ‘Man is inert,’ with difficulty
freed from traditions and habits, he is rarely able to free himself from
the temptation of the path of least resistance, especially when sophisticated
representatives. bourgeois art envelop’ this“path pleasant
the fog of dreams and the beauty of false sophisms. Our critical knife is class-
This instinct must be sharpened by incorruptible intransigence. We' have to
know; that in the smallest doses bourgeois art is extremely poisonous and
has a destructive effect on our will and feeling. But we should also know
and another, that a voluntary agent ‘and very skillful’ conductor of the drill-
No. 11-12 PROLETARIAN: CULTURE. 36

\ Juaz art is the intelligentsia. Behind it you need to install
control and subordinate to our aspirations. And if we persevere
consistency in the pursuit of our tasks, - to subordinate the intelligentsia
it will be easy for us. Ro

for socialists, supporters: historical materialism, who do not
recognized free will and ‘take everything out. ideology in general from economic
social relations created on the basis of a certain method of production, co-
knowledge is the instrument with which they reveal
all the complex mechanics of social relations ‘and all that follows from them
architecture of cultural buildings. Getting an incentivefrom the existing mat-
rial relations and class interests, consciousness makes it possible to
to understand the emerging paths of emerging and ‘simultaneously collapsing’
social forms and thereby serves as a stimulus for our activity,
organizing it into actions to achieve the class interests of the proloetary,
carried out in socialism. This view of the role of consciousness in society
sing the struggle we differ from all your class enemies as pure
bourgeois, who are in her service as accomplices in the exploitation of the intelligentsia,
and the amorphous, not yet defined, layer of the petty bourgeoisie, forever
wavering and concentrating in itself all the prejudices of the era, the most
complete than the defined classes. All our enemies are afraid of consciousness, instinct
actively turn away from him, vaguely feeling that the logic of consciousness
can reveal social relations regardless of their will and desire,
leads to the emerging new social form of socialism, which
buries and destroys the source of their exsilation - private property. /1o-
the geek of social development opens up unpleasant for the bourgeoisie
not the prospects of the ‘path’ of development, and consciousness sometimes serves as a clear mirror-
scrap; through which their future fate is so clearly visible. It is natural that
this circumstance’ and forces them to hide from consciousness under the wing of a non-
understandable, mysterious and all that; what lulls and lays on him
a veil of haze and fog. _

ua development of technology and natural science by the bourgeoisie, our pros will say.
Tivviks, didn’t the scientists in the service of the bourgeoisie contribute
ar step by step expelling everything mysterious from these areas. Yes that's true
but only this is true © of the other side. Their desire to develop technology ‘and
Natural science did not arise from the desire to build a better social,
order, but out of a bottomless dull thirst for profit. Only. only an engineer or
the scientist was planning to abandon the path of profit for a more ideal path, like
nourished and now deprived him. support and selected all means and methods
work and therebyexpressed his dreams of ideals. It goes without saying
that under these conditions bourgeois scientists did not dare to get carried away
with self-willed dreams. Their role. was and is fulfillment, splendor, ka-
| In the field of art and philosophy, bourgeois servants from
intellectuals can freely devote their souls to themselves, fully and freely
fantasize, “create fanciful “legends” out of a piece of life, especially
that these legends easily penetrate into everyday life and can ‘intoxicate the proletarian with the abyss
poisonous fog of bourgeois ideology and penetrate very thin and barely

‘subtle forms into all the pores of his body, and thereby confuse him 00-
knowledge and relax the will. That's why with such ruthlessness and harshness
th necessary cruelty we. must dispel ‘irreconcilable light
class consciousness is the accumulated toxic fumes of the bourgeois. noxious
great spirit, no matter what beautiful forms and pleasant sounds it takes on.
| In the fields of art form there is a way - through our class society
holding to shape. No matter how attractive bourgeois forms may be, for
but they will still be unusable. “When the architect’s thought strives
to the sky, to the feeling - to Vog, oh will build a temple, the vaults of which will run away
to the heights. If Yu'on thinks about horses, he will build a strong one. co-

8

43
86 PROLETARIAN) CULTURE. | No. 1-51

sniffle." So tell Farianny our attitude towards ponoks chi eea.
Vessalko. t

The most elementary and yours. resistant to the “variations” should
First of all, to familiarize students with the essence of socialism; with
its scientific theoretical justification., Without fulfilling this requirement
class conscious creative work does not seem possible.
Each content, idea that the student works on in order to put it into
appropriate form, must not only be felt, but also
thought out, realized to the end. Vee; what the student wants to express, he. before the war
he, with the help of his consciousness, connects this content or idea with
tasks of his class and with the ultimate goal - socialism. - He mustunderstand
What is the connection between the content that he wants to express and the objectives?
his class, the given 'experienced moment, and all this is strictly analyzed"
and then begin to search for the most powerful form. and, beautiful.
expressing his idea. You can ‘say’ in advance if you have the talent,
ability in art. form ‘to express oneself, one’s ‘cherished concerns’
general ideas, with this way of working the form will be found. "Defenders, drill"
zhuaz art cannot agree with this, they will immediately raise
howl and for the hundredth time they will shout with pathos to the ‘juvoboda-art’ and speak
about the absurdity of regulations in the field of creativity and feglamentation, Well, how,
a venomous supporter of the free art of description will ask us. morning. or
Is it possible to connect birches with socialism? It is possible and.must, we answer, Yes
He is a deep socialist if the idea of socialism reaches him. not just until
‘consciousness; But. and before. feelings, or description. they are birch twigs
'may well be 'related to socialism. ›Sro poetic description of nature.
Yes Pushkin we say; that it is national; “in this ‘description one feels-
‘Xia’ the formed spirit of Russian culture. You see the same thing in the area
pictorial; ‘for example, in Levitan’s paintings. In Tchaikovsky's music you
already struck directly at the class mood of a certain Russian intelligentsia,
public strip. our great writers ate in the description of nature
portrayed a national figure, then: there are no “reasons to deny the possibility
ability to display the socialist face. Fama: fuck it, nature, of course
“has no class or national personality, but: passing through the priz-
mu ‘subjective consciousness’. and ‘mood! poet, which is the very ‘result
objectively prevailing conditions; she accepts =. the day which is yours,
is consistent with the worldview that reflects it, with

Objections to regulations and regulations in the field of creativity.
also do not stand up to criticism. Otary ‘techniques of individual, creativity,
which depended on the occasion and mood, had already begunlot is replaced by new ones
methods of methodical, regulated, calculated work. In the area
and sound creativity of natural science and technology in a different way, can. only. what
what was said has not been recognized for a long time. The beginning of a methodological collective
‘work’ has already been done and’ in the sphere of creativity, art, and it’s ‘given co.
in the rise of science ‘begins to be recognized as the only expedient and possible
nom. Creativity is organized in a laboratory studio way, from the sphere
random it is transferred to the methodically ‘organized and is permanent
ny. continuous 'character. True, not in these studios yet. carried out. by-
therefore, the scientific ‘staging’ of creativity, in them, ‘thanks to the dominance
intelligentsia and their individualistic habits, an obsolete belch
allows itself to be strongly ‘still felt, but’ in the process of decomposition, this belching is already
is proceeding at an accelerated pace, and our task is only to help this force
give them painless and ‘normal’ character | if

The student` are filled only with workers, ‘this is put in the zoomova SHASH
activities. But: actual work in the studios cannot begin yet
I completed the Oovet 'Proletkult' program, 'general course' for 60:
socialism. Without. this solid foundation laid in the minds of students and teachers"
Shah, the task of identifying the ‘proletarian! creativity ‘done to be not. maybe
No. 1148 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 87.

just as a tree cannot blossom and grow green without roots. When the willows come."
the work of preparing socialism, then we can begin
and to studio work’development of creative possibilities: wasp

`We imagine working in a studio, for example, in a music studio, like this.
‘in this way: the initial acquaintance with musical literacy should not be
drilling, in which they strive to achieve an accurate transmission of musical:
my tasks, and first of all it is necessary to reveal creative possibilities
every studio worker has a worker. Need to. give him a chance to express first.
free the soul, awaken with the help of an independent selection of sounds that
what's in nI am still hidden and somewhere. in the depths, weakly trembling under the yoke of interests and
habits of bourgeois philistinism. When dormant talent 6} mastered=
freed from the yoke of everyday life, when it takes root... obi,
express yourself, then you can begin to become acquainted with musical literacy.
“As soon as the stage of necessary technical assimilation has been completed
musical literacy, “when the student masters some technical
means that allow you to express creative needs with greater
‘freedom and ease, then’ the third stage must come, This third
Kotadia is the most ticklish and delicate. On the one hand, the student is already
begins to show off his achievements and express himself publicly, with d—
he still continues to learn and improve. yourself. Here is the studio
most of all their ‘leaders’, ‘instructors’ and intellectuals, have pain
there is a temptation to follow the old bourgeois paths, as an expression
of their achievements, when publicly displayed, they take content and samples
old kjavssikov bourgeois masters. They are very tempted
show yourself. let's overcome the complex and subtle. structural. ‚ formations
bourgeois classics, From the point of view of class development, we consider this
definitely harmful. Should shave only proletarian class content
‘zhanie and it shows strength and achievements. There's nothing to be embarrassed about if
the content, in artistic terms, is not completely perfect, as long as it
did not block the way for class socialist creativity, -

S. the growth of a keen sense of judgment in choosing content will
‘grow and artistic development; Reverse action. will produce bourgeois
samples” they will “suffocate class creativity and poison it. the poison of its ideology
logic that is inherent in them, and; ‘thus will contribute not
development of class creativity, and its decomposition, We repeat again, for
Proletkult studios there can be only one way - to go in search of for-
we are in art through our class content. All the material that!
‹luzhdfor the exercise, it must be carefully selected and according to its content.
to be proletarian and revolutionary socialist.

The Proletkult Choir and individual studio members must perform songs
proletarian. poets, Let some of the songs as material for musical
These exercises are not perfect, p. the artistic side is rather weak, this
there is nothing to be embarrassed about, as long as there is good quality on the part of the class
content, artistry matures in the process of creative work. For
The most important thing for us is to free ourselves from the power of the bourgeois as soon as possible
‘ideology, $y Ch

'Proletarian songs must be rearranged by proletarian musicians-
for the music. The student must understand the content of the song, analyze
its connection with the position of the proletariat and socialism. Until then, pon
the native will not master the content, will not understand it completely and will not establish connections,
he must begin the creative process. m

All achievements must be openly shown to the masses. About criticism and from-
carrying the proletarian masses to the creative achievement of students, students
will spy and check the results of their work, as opposed to. ‘pre-
the spectatorial attitude of bourgeois artists to the court of the proletarians
bearers of art must take a different path. Our mass with her
homogeneous interests are not the same as those with heterogeneous contradictory

ur
38 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: No.

knowledge and interests to whom he spoke. bourgeois artist.
Mravda; and not everyone is an artist. judgment of the masses. must carry out’ in’
life. But we are always obliged to understand these ‘judgments’ why the mass. on Oprah":
the divided artistic expression influenced one way and not another; Artist
nii' 'can maintain' her independence in the way of expression, (but he must.
women should take into account the judgment of the masses and should not refuse to understand it,

``The best thing to do is to consistently conduct searches for the form through
content in literary ‘studios. What is depicted is put in connection with in-
the principles of the proletarian class and its ideal, andwhen’ is the grain of content
understandable and fully realized, then it is brought to feeling and clothed
its' 'juices, Only with such work is conscious and systematic
the conquest of proletarian culture. We know that this path is difficult, it is
there is a lot of work and perseverance, connected with methodicality and calculation, but other
there is no way. The path of least resistance is much easier, especially
ness when he walks to the sounds of intellectual sirens from the bourgeoisie,
with their singing about the freedom of art, but this easy path cannot lead. to,
desired result. It ‘can only lead to treason and betrayal
of his class. A clear example of such betrayal is the lassing +
Talented Menshevik workers of Iwai, born by the bourgeois intelligentsia
Kubikov and Vabik. Both betrayed the interests of their
class and turned into skinny, rtr burmrenkoy: powerful
without having time to develop his inclinations.

‘Ending the article, we will say once again, no harm to our enemies
class and least of all concessions in the field of ‘art and science; Class
the contradictions in this part of the ideology are much more obscured. tol
you than in the political struggle. That is why ‘in this area our work and
. its methods must' be built 'on a 'strictly' class method and with non-
with reconciled, persistent mercilessness to reveal the hidden poison of the bourgeois ideology
logy. In response to the buzzing of the bourgeois intelligentsia about politics and
to freedom of art and science we will answer: the process of work and creativity is
where we have not yet been free from the views of the subject expressing this creativity, and
views cannot’ be free from the’ society in which they live,

' Fedor Kalinin.

06 study of labor processes '), -
„(Response to A. Gaetev.).

`All this is not as simple as we would like it to be'

mother to many ‹ specialists in May
14 yy culture, AlRastev: “About trends in prope-
o atabmzhonya Ko ni G “rolotyrism culture

Russian eovrve about › zrolotyuonoy. culture obisal fi one
an article about the trends of proletarian culturewe are talking about the article Ah Faete-
va, published in No. 9-10 “Proletarian Culture and trying to raise
banner of rebellion against “mehomatism” etc. I eo neo Zuev about eco-
It's time to resolve this issue. 1

Va “crude deductivity” taken from the propaganda armor
shur“ he proposes to approach the issue with the help of the subtlest myocular
th analysis’ new” proviyni your mind is zoovromeiny
proletariat." jovi

`‹ One cannot help but welcome the very desire to replace the erubum with a deductive
“nob” “the finest molecular analysis”: this is also desirable and necessary

!) The article is published in. disnusemonic ‘order.
No. 11-12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 39

we know how to move from. wallpaper places 'and 'pompous phrases to research
first of all, outlining the ways and methods, the volume and the nearest shawls of her
o the reader’s consciousness is unpleasantly struck by the contradictions into which he falls
gives. A. Gobtev co. era with thoughtful ‘wishes in VALDINIY expression-
marriage,
“Starting with zopriee neve to where we talk about “browonium groups,
treating issues of proletarian culture, and ending with the final
torture to sketch out the “contours of proletarian culture,” A. Gastev interprets everything
the questions he touches with broad strokes of the pen, without giving himself any trouble
don't do it. only the “finest molecular” or at all
` in-depth analysis of the issues that he treats, but even to collect and
and destroy your material so that it can be used with Aaron 4 or
“subtle” analysis. }
‚In the opening lines. with one stroke of the pen, A. Bogdeyov is given
point-blank "Eastern" 1) conservatism, in which the reader is left to his own
we can guess what “eastern” conservatism is, and why in it
A is guilty; Bogdanov.
D. Gastev uses the same methods to interpret the material.
Let's start with its husking (my italics M.S.) reuutsaonyh * and and a
out" definitions of workers. _
The term “husking” apparently means the size of the
by grouping and classification.
© in order for the trouping of material to be as correct as possible
noah,it must satisfy two criteria:
1) the totality of the group must cover the entire mass of the material being studied;
2) despite the diversity of characteristics, groups must be selected
so that when studying them dynamically, they can be numbered through
some kind of general meter. g.
The first condition requires no comment. On the second I will allow you to leave
update in a little more detail.
| ‘in statistics there is a term “Indian number” or Lyon-vozhav-
tel“, i.e. a number that gives a single quantitative expression to a complex process
su measurements of individual constituent groups of the measured whole. "Indens" or
The “indicator” merges together the movement of a number of groupies, taking into account
front is the weight of each and being, as it were, a statistical resultant of them,
the genus of the exponent number is possible, however, only if there is
for all groups of one common meter. In some. branches of statistics
sticks, finding such a meter is extremely easy. So English statistics
prices gives monthly' (and gave long before the war) only one thing, which
she calls the “index number of dearness” and which represents from se-
bya complex (weighted) average of a series of group averages of percentage
price changes *).
oh The common measure here is the percentage of price growth. Can't compare
and combine the growth of absolute prices of different products, but it is easy to produce
numeric fuck c) in numbers - percentage changes
yami ri

\) Author's quotation marks.

2) In each corpse there are objects having an equal ‘specific’ weight ‘n’on-
native consumption (mineral; textiles, two groups of food products, etc.), can
dil of receiving the total indenev each gruciz oefeteya not per unit, 8 per quantity
yy proportional to this specific gravity. In the indicator calculated in this way

price changes, certain individual signs of price changes for individual

memory, And if the British ru UCH that in January 1917 the indicator of high cost was equal

'/, (compared to ‹em 19 taken as 100), this means that the cost of joia-

neither in general ageasla from 1055/, without changing individual products or even groups

py them. Tables of the English indices of ‘highness’ are given by me in the article “Conflicts”

labor and capital in modern England" in the "Bulletin of the People's Commissariat of Russia"
No. 2—In 1918

7
40 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. №1 2

“In supply steel, we are already dealing with a somewhat more complex
meter: the supply of a country with a wide variety of products can be compared
through the calculation of the percentage of completion of supply plans. 19
o Each product group is different from each other; °/› poly-
of the task set for itself by the state is a common change for all =
parent, And here it is possible to give a general ‘indicator’ to the role of the siab-
zheniya" on a wide variety of topics 1), to

„It’s more complicated. The situation is different in productivity statistics
it is necessary to compare quantities with each other, the change of which is
fusions of at least three variables: ‘intensity ‹ human
labor, productive power of machines and quantity. time worked; °
in this case, it is necessary to compare all these values: ‘across different industries’
production, having very different technical measures of intensity
labor and output. However, the general ‘meter. a wide variety of productions
It seems to be the norm everywhere. output per man-hour, will this man
one-hour is equal to one thousandth! parts of a steam locomotive, or 2 arshins of chintz.

The percentage change in production standards per person+tea' and' gives›mothers
the ability to compare these groups with each other and derive. pvonozalney: › pro-
productivity for the country as a whole, p vi vr

However, all these examples are from the field of quantitative change: Here
moment that unites ^ the most. various - qualitatively - and op
hierarchy, which has an exact quantitative expression. ^^

“Iravda is here. They are like the army of such ‘common people’
national concepts like “more” “international”, not neon or! teeth
tion*, but ‘not: in exact numbers: |.’ most, I

NI’ the same; this general meter is neededcondition rea oravionil
trends in the development of individual groups: chi kim

In “The Science of Social Consciousness” speaking. O. life basics
collectivism", A. Bogdanov | outlines › such military dynamics
technology. | he

‚For’ the most ‘various branches of technology named after. ‘alone are planned’ and!! same
tendencies: 01 heterogeneity to ‘homogeneity’ of workers, names and. mile e*
executive and organizational function of labor: 1x 199

"V. era, manufactory 'capitalism! brought oposchiolizotsinya to'. nok,
The worker turned into a machine for a separate person. often ‘the smallest;, labor
operations; the entire content of “labor” was reduced for him to “several defined+
other movements, ›different, special in each specialty. What does bula have in common?
permanent manufacturing between the actions of the worker,. who pulls the wire;
and actions. another who cuts it?. Here, there is a diversity of labor
complete, ‘no less or even more than between ‘different artisans. And
nearby. with this - whole. the gap between the ‘work of such Mayan-like mepolniz
leaders and the organizers leading them, whose function is entirely “spiritual”:

“Machine production progressively weakens this heterogeneity in
both. lines. Specialization, in fact, remains: branches of production are not
mixed between. myself, Iv. each has different technical operations,
performed using different machines. But an ever-increasing share of ‘diverse
The nature of work is transferred from people to machines. Work content
kov, even with very different machines, will stop similar in the main and
from its largest part: the functions of machine supervision, control, regulation
ideas, considerations. And hand movements make up. everything. less important"
tive side of this work, although it is called the middle” “physical-
skoy“, This trend towards the homogeneity of the labor force and TWIN. ARAM
especially in the zirid branches of the Genius deck

1) Pack A ‚supply mob reader found in the moss field of Vozavelokkiyao
supply numbers" printed at three-month intervals. 3. "Economic

Fuck it." In the lastarticle (Ekon. LJ. osh August 7) the term groves already appears
meter". See also the collections “Accounting and Supply” published by V.S.N.H., ;

No. 11-4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: 41

_Then decreases, although’ more ‘slowly’, and then ‘different’ heterogeneously-
oti—mental labor and simple labor,” i.e., “scientific-organizational and
and performing. We saw that the executive 'royv' under Malpin Trini-
has the features of an 'organizational one: in it the leaders are the first! effort plan character
tera `;intellectual' or `spiritual' and increasing! now technically
social consciousness and general intelligence of the employee becomes: the main
its condition: Further stages of machine technology; --- stage of automation
and then automatic regulation of the ‘mash,’ increasing further’ and ‘dali
level of ‹simple" labor force; ‘lead and; in the end, must ‘lead
it to real ‘homogeneity’ in the ‘working’ force of ‘scientific-organizational,
“engineering” 1). and sinks", ‚

Thus, the “general meters” are obvious. No matter how big
technical diversity of the studied groups, study of changes in each
groups in relation to this kind of general measures could give us
prediction of changes in the nature of labor processes. vevgo ‘worker’
16064147 whole forehead isoai entering my bottom

Does Gastev's group satisfy these two requirements? Not at all:

`First of all’ to him. would you like to accept as an assumption “that the proletariat has mobilized
manufacturing industry! and’ especially that one; who works in the furnace
overproduction, this is precisely the proletariat that before the other
He gets acquainted with and perceives the new production system and develops.
the most advanced 'proletarian group'; Why is this an axiom, about this
the author says ‘our words, But this ‘acbiome’ is unfortunately ‘in’ contradiction
with the technology of modern production on the one hand, and the history of work:
what movement—© another; ‘In ‘modern. production, as A. has already indicated.
Vogdanov in his response to Gastev, such’ branches of the industry; ‘like chemicalical
or electrical engineering, they also have a very high specific “bov: › ‘o.

`” `Quantity to talk about the tendencies of the pro-Yetarian culture:

in general 2) in no way ‘can’t’ be ignored ‘and’ such huge groupies
workers' kives, like 'miners, tecotilchiques, 'tranepor workers', etc.
Ali noni give other “tariff types” and other “psychotechnical” signs;
then when defining the general tendencies of the culture of the working class, we do not have
the ability to ignore them. We' can only; if“ it is necessary, when-
give them less statistical “weight” when determining the general: equi-
howling. Yes, the Cotati have other types of work; ^on 'metal' they stand, 'perhaps
closer to the work of a textile worker than to some of the other types of work. metal
same. A worker standing at an automatic machine that emits per unit time
using a certain number of nails or springs and making sure that
so that congestion does not occur and that “throwing out” occurs. went smoothly; much
is closer to the type of work for that employee; the one who will irritate
calico-printed ‘factory’ long strips of fabric stretching from shaft to ‘shaft,
than to a pattern maker or an intrumentalist: With a more careful study
FDI of labor processes in various sectors of the iridetoya industry; probably
establish a completely different classification. It's not as bad as it seems.
But it’s also good to highlight roles; which was played by the workers of one or another
_ branches of industry in the worker. movement of Europe, in the ‘struggle for workers’
giving and in general’ political. struggle of the proletariat” sweat about the strip

At least hire coal miners. ‘They played’ and ‘and continue to play’ to this day
n6 small role c. political. and social movement. ‘Russia Belgium,
Germany and England, | zo) tsolo flow

OB of Belgium they have repeatedly been the instigators of political
speeches. workers' party, in England they play a huge role in the struggle
for the minimum wage bill for the years before the war, '& during. time! howl"
we ‘their own demand to “restore the pre-war relationship betweendo that part

Ka

1) 'Science" about the world consciousness, stf. 2012909. and May V I
9) Expressed became stichesni’ half of its characteristics midex or ‘general indicator.’ p

22
42 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 11.4

gross income, which goes to wages and which goes to
profit“ IOMH the threat of a general strike wrested the Asqui-
that (on the eve of his fall) the first act on the regulation of economic life
knowledge, country, the immediate result of which was the capture of; state-
gift control of coal mines. At the moment they are fighting -
I am for the complete nationalization of the Kotsei.

“and Wartime played a significant role in the fishing movement of Eurona and
textile workers of Flanders and Saxony. And even in the very first period
their role in the German labor movement was very significant, remaining
forever poeticized in Heine's poem, }

We will weave an old shroud
°We will throw a triple curse into him,
”_ We weave, we don’t weave. |

s 1 +4 vi

rey Rovoni, the famous strike. Notorburg weavers and rralliyiv
end of the century sr yog vn first law on rationing
working day,

‚. No need to multiply. examples. The history of the labor movement has been written.
Latest. stages of it are in the memory of many of us, Coal miners tried blasting
The weavers wove for him some of the pillars of the hundred world with their dynamite. sa-
Van and Dezhe bakers, having created in Brussels d People - a workers' cooperative
in a belt of photon and bread and socialist brochures.

Of all these individual ones. Based on these struggles, a united labor movement grew
life of Europe. A universal meter for all forms of professional wrestling
being a degree of professional isolation or, conversely, ascension
to general class ones. tasks of the proletariat. The development of this general class s0-
knew in the context of ‘the social struggle of labor against capital has the same role
to create. proletarian psychology, as well as technical working conditions. Without her
had: evidence based on purely technical characteristics will not be complete.

perhaps it is sufficient to determine somedamn hesitant
metalheads, but... not the working class as a whole. And psychotechnics is metal-
sheets and the trends of proletarian culture are by no means the same thing.
,: So. By. the first irisiam-grushirchni A. Gestov is very dissatisfied
r smt

1) because. it does not cover the entire working class as a whole,

2). because she. based. only on labor technology, ignoring
an important fight for him.

Let us now move on to the second sign. A common meter that
unites. Gruzzi, [stump Gvstev, is the degree of qualification
workers' bathrooms. study the psychotechnical groups of metalheads
spyipically. for the special needs of today's tariff work
diya, then this criterion of Gastev’s grouping will probably turn out to be quite
satisfactory. But tariffing is one thing, proletarianism is another.
culture, To grasp the trends of proletarian culture, we need absolutely
other groups and other criteria. groups. Here you need to look for real
significant trends in the development of labor. processes; and not those who are on"
vary from the point of view of tariffing at a given moment. +

The relationship between man and machine, taking into account the dynamics of ‘And ten-
dentsii Techniki. her, that's what would be important to install in everyone. groups, but
I repeat, the very principle of classification must be the result of a huge
work on the study of labor processes. And we must hope that this work
will be carried out in seminaries of future proletarian universities, etc. what

they will take part in its implementation! techniques, statistics and fiviopogs. And then
you will really be able to go “somewhere into the distance; somewhere up” from the tariff -
tions of metalworkers,

So, A. Gaotev’s classification cannot be considered satisfactory

and on the second basis. The fallacy of his methods is especially clear
m 2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 43

on individual ‹illustrative › and examples given by ‘im. So 'one of
“giant laboratories” where “psychology is created; where culture is fabricated”
tour. proletariat,” he believes. "military industry" of the entire "earth"
ry." Let's try. prismget closer to’ this statement. Just no bu;
Let’s stick to “rough deductiveness”, let’s try better to give A. Gastev
some material for his “subtle molecular analysis.” ^^

‚’ Great material about power. homeland of the ‘proletariat during
Wars are provided, for example, by the availability of highly developed technology—Alglia. GMO

‹.England's gun production was taken' from the very beginning of the war under
state control. `At the same time' between the state and the owners
there were “controlled firms”. the following agreement has been concluded; controlled
firms pay the state military. tax and receive “with the help of government
government" unlimited number of workers and are freed from
compliance with all the rules of trade unions to normalize production, which gives
them, as he naively stated in the House. general liberal deputy 'Simon' "gender:
new opportunity to realize much. bigger profits than if you follow
rules of trade unions, because if they are not observed, significantly
high labor intensity." ( 9 ue

That one. the same “Law on Zalcite Queen”, which was “virtually repealed”
adopted a whole series of constitutional guarantees in England, gave the government
the right to cancel the so-called “trade union privileges”; At the same time
labor adult men were, ‘by; in the figurative expression of ‘workers,’ ‘liquefied’
the labor of children and women who received pitiful wages, unorganized
called and. those who were unable to develop’ almost no resistance force. Vyra"
boots grew, and the bourgeois press choked with delight: “We see
now,” writes the magazine “Yusoposh!8(“, “as women; ‘working on machines,
increased production by 200% compared to its pre-war level; when
Only qualified male workers were at work. But
This is not because women work better - of course, they worked worse -
but simply. simply because. they are free to let in: cars. maximum
pace“: The result of this freedom was said quite quickly; already in 1917
reports from factory doctors began to paint a terrible picture of ‘pova’flaxseed oil
owl physical and nervous exhaustion of workers. At the same time 'was
Sunday and evening rest were canceled and all legal barriers to limit
understanding: female and child labor. According to the Committee on the Health of Weapons,
nal workers." (Nope W o shau op \otkeg; sosuegse) women's working day
lasted ‘in gun factories, often from 6 a.m. ‘to. ’`8h. evening’ In
English newspapers are full of lamentations from all sorts of philanthropists about children,
falling asleep in omnibuses and trams after a 16-hour working day, pro-
conducted for the production of shells. And quite often we also came across
couples about litigation due to the amount generated per unit of time -
no cartridge cases or shrapnel tubes; At the same time the salary
fees at controlled companies are strictly regulated by special
committees" and fishing vessels and for 2 years, for example; women
We workers are fighting in vain with Lloyd George to fulfill his duties. eob-
treasury promise to 'give' them a 'just reward' for. launching
machines at full speed." with the complete cancellation of production normalization. At the same time
the government is trying to attach the gun 'workers to the place of 'their production'
water drainage and not allow their free movement throughout: the country, I protest-
workers are sent ‘to the front, and strikes are suppressed by armed’ force and
threats of ‘condemnation’ of ‘leaders’ ‘their ‘hard labor’): vow |
These are. social and living conditions of ‘life’ in one of the ‘giant’ laboratories

Ratorium" where. a culture of the proletariat is created and a culture of the proletariat is fabricated.

—- +

\) This is not the place, of course, to give any or any detailed picture of the younger age of an-
Tlisky gun peloaret during the war. I'm just highlighting a few highlights.
iggrihoy` This picture. At one time, “I had to” write quite often about this issue.
millet on the pages of “Chronicle”, “New Life” and “National Economy”, ggooyaiar

23

=
—

44 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. p

If here some features of psychology have been created or can be created;
then these are by no means those features that'trying to get A. Gastev out of technical
ical conditions of military azduzirtsi. Social ‘conditions may,’ of course,
develop on the ‘number of © ‘maseov’ ‚nervous exhaustion’ of adults and stop
development of children, as reported by factory doctors, and psychology
collective resistance, pressure, can also contribute to 4:9
the development of military cohesion, ‘and new social and psychological factors

be that as it may, all this is the influence not of technology, but of economic life. ‘ivko?
Well, we have no right to ignore one more condition of work at Gigant
laboratory of weapons production. Constant work to create
weapons of destruction and murder must also have an impact on the psyche
a worker who produces these negative values. Howl to the attracted
to court due to the insufficient number of ‘cartridges’ produced per day
shell casings and realize at the same time that everything is a hell of a sweat - everything from
destruction of human organisms, all this beating. babies and all’ these
3200 percent dividends for owners of controlled companies
ve glory of murder and destruction!

For psychotechnics, the very object of technology cannot be indifferent,
type of creativity; ‘in which the worker participates; Creation of lethal weapons
diys, airplanes, or their agricultural machines must be very different
directly affect the psyche of the workers involved in their creation, ‘And with this
points of view `zRigvntskie. laboratories of weapons production are unlikely
contribute to the creation of the culture of the proletariat of the future. Creators
instruments of destruction and murder cannot be the vanguard of the
building of proletarian culture, despite the high perfection of technology
their cars. Here, creators in the true sense should come first.
lo’ otote, word horadatyi deboiyenomyi leave r, hedgehog forest
humanity. about cast:

And of course, dibinium: enomischy c. creation of microsnoya, aoroshlan,
reaping machine. or a loom, stands infinitely closer to creation
culture of the proletariat than the worker,in:forging parts for *twelve-
inch gun mli ‘working in an asphyxiating gas factory. Because work
the first makes him a participant in the organization of social labor; & work
the second makes him touching the killing of lives and destruction of valuables

Analysis; at least the finest molecular ion,” but no matter how much
correct, `n6 can ignore’ all these points of sychotechnique. and
<ociopeichology.‹ And in any case, the one who ignores these refi-
will shackle you into the same sin of crude speculations.”

But let's move on ^®. | b

A. Gaotev withdraws-in. in his understanding of proletarian education but small
the role of “working and production standards”. in- in } 549

He speaks about them abruptly, hastily, but nevertheless, he manages to
some of them are “social + normative tendencies” that are being implemented

in the “militant forms of the labor movement”, in its “social ‘creativity’, which
nie, ‹apartments; finally, even into the intimate life of the proletariat":

The enemy of these would be deductions, of course, it would be better not to fuck this up, but de-
that's not the point. The point is the socio-historical origin and “normalization”
production," A. Bogdanov: in his reply to A. Gastev, he notes that "is happening"
The origin of normalization trends lies in the craft-guild ‘reg-
mentations, This is, of course, so,’ but’ in the’ last era of catalistic pro-
production of the old trend: received a new color, corresponding to the giant
©to whom the increase in the intensity of ‘human’ labor in connection with the development of technology
ki, In precise economic language it should be said that the struggle for ‘workers’
production standards were a struggle against the growth of exploitation standards,
proceeds parallel to the development of technology, in other words, the fight against
constant lag between the growth of the value of labor and the growth of surplus
values.
5 5/№@11-=12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 45

_.. The latter may appear as a result of an increase in ›intensity
labor, and the increase in its productivity. "Sioux IT 9
g. In the chapter. about “changes in the value of the price of labor” and surplus
values”, per timein business; “The working day and labor productivity are constant,
the variable is the intensity of labor,” Marx gives the following general
formulation of this dynamic. relationship between ‘labor intensity and labor
wages; “raising the price of labor power does not imply the necessity
We need to raise its price higher. values, ‚but. maybe. on the contrary;” ‘00+
accompanied by a decline in its value. This. happens. always when there is an increase
labor prices are not compensated. its accelerated waste or deterioration“ ‘).
“In the same chapter, in the section; “the amount of working days and syntension.
labor is constant, the variable is productive. cupped Mars
also formulates the relationship between the movement of labor productivity’ and ‘for-
wages"; “change in the productive force of labor,’ ‘its’ ‘increase
or decrease, acts in the opposite direction, and the value of labor
ly. and in direct terms - surplus value*. 3). / These provisions are not difficult
to illustrate though. would be the following, examples of recent Russian action
telnosti, nA, o Zhizh: atom OZORODana ha. VO biti ini
.At the end of the last century. transition. Petrograd weavers with’ workers
you are on one machine to work on. 2, wages) they were. increased from

15-18 r. c. month' till. 16-19 r. with almost doubling of production and doubled

expenditure of attention, doubled, intensification, vision or; Di o sionoloye soviit
_ “The same phenomenon is observed. usually at. introduction, maliin, greater” pro-
productivity, the introduction of new labor systems and all kinds. primitive
systems, wages 5 pnomeson OE 9 Century uche LLC
o' ›Mosednye, were definitely introduced as a. bet "on increasing ›intlenoiv-
labor norms and excilovation norms in all those areas of production where
the intensity of human labor is not predetermined by productivity
machines, 3), This kind of Teidorism existed. too much for Taylor. Cervich-
Its new form is piecework payment, a more developed bonus!
curious. an example of this: inflation, surplus ›‚cost” and rivedu
althoughwould be the next excerpt. from the small monograph I have
about the labor situation. tagamrogo metallurgical ‘plants’ related to
to 190%... TI tab asya IZURO { atm o o tecom 2908009“ Knowing
im eV piston rolling. department about the house, 409.lists for the period. time-
me, in which they previously cut 200. Poke intensity, pile. ‘was weak,
the accord form of wages prevailed, you were given a ‘service bonus’
La gave an impetus to increase the intensity of labor, but began to almost ‘exceed
daily earnings. by. least. the last one’s growth, when did they grow up a little
not twice, as was the case in the sheet rolling department, - cord
the payment was abolished almost everywhere, ‘by increasing the daily wage. on. 20-—30°/,. This is a significant
but, of course, it reduced the total amount. earnings" 'tiv. the prize was
'50-100°/, daily wages. Nebodshaya. howl. workers" was each master
skaya was left on the piecework platform. ©. like this! calculation, ‘so that ‘podevaschiki
I had to keep up with the piecemeal. And again the ‘price’ of the last
fell in parallel. I'm looking forward to it. intensity of labor): itoodegoonnya

= cho I and nom NNK “ata HF, RE
1) Capital volume T, page 869. Ved ovvUo “El vyig.
7909) `Valital: homo, ‘stu 366; golom a Vadleikh chdorree oh“

there are 4 of them

they Tehiiumeszhigreaitsiomy i kaitgaliam otofatsykh, furam repaid, sometimes such windows
mic paradoxes; a worker can earn his wages, in the end
ecoilbatation thanks to the possibilities of ’raised ‘mormu’’ of the workings” in FM MantinaKh.
Ira vninichike very’ chaetf sbyayai and Russia oibi otvree pridyayen in slot, blalodira
why in Petrograd at the beginning of the last century there were 1,200 machines. veretei and
up to:.200. The introduction of improved machines required the blast furnace of old febrile buildings.
nii, not enough fuel for the new machines, but this was one. node "very"
to the hosts. r G y O

ma Siygisrnki labor „No. 28, commented by M.-Smith—“Southern problems of statistics”
wages", ik mdchatsony: © M. 'outside

um
`

46 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 11-12

es Ihere again we have d
exploitation. A . }
wow, the same 'process and comparison' manufacturer will dry out even more sharply -
labor and wages in different countries, t.-6. in different ‘conditions’
technology development. If we assume, for example, that... a weaver working near Moscow 1)
Stashko on one, St. Petersburg on two, Lakashi on 4-8, and American
Kansky by 8-20, then the wages of weavers in four countries increases
not at all in the same proportion as production, i.e. not at all in relation to
12-8: 8-—20. In the chapter on 'national wage differences'
Marx, mentioning the example of the British building a railway in Asia,
their names were forced to be considered as national differences
intensity of labor, but it did not bring them any loss. Experience them
shows that if’ ‘even the ‘height of wages’ is ‘more’ or less
corresponds to the average labor intensity, tb relative ‘Value of labor
(relative to the product) generally moves in the opposite direction
ni^ 1). In the same chapter! Marco cites the opinion of a member of the English factory
No commission that in England the payment is essentially lower for the manufacturer,
than on the continent, although for a worker it may be higher 3). ‹ #1
_In this dynamics of wages lies the origin of the worker-pro-
production standards; It 'was an attempt by the workers 'to introduce into their agreement with
cashital puts a certain limit on the growth of the ecoloation rate. In pre-war collections
In trade union agreements, a specific cost was usually determined
physical energy that the English worker gave to his entrepreneur
Malelyu; during strikes, threats were often made to reduce the in-
labor intensity unless wages are increased. Absolutely
it is clear) that in countries such as England and America, where the production of cars
comes out quite quickly, in pursuit of increasing productivity
Yes, workers’ organizations develop, by way of self-proclamation, ‘rules, rules’
raging so that an increase in salary does not discourage them from increasing
“’” Fazhovo origine issue of normalization of production. Since
it is staged in one country or another, it was staged, of course, specifically, in connection
with the technical conditions of a given country. At international ‘e’s’ meetings, professional
nal unions may have been and could have been developed,
uniform for a number of countries, but far from all sectors of production,
The water outlet is far away. Not! for all countries. $ oe mm o `
‚ ‹ The movement ‘in opelom’ was carried out in the ‘Social Self-Defense Department, but’ not 8’ in a row -
ke the universal normalization of labor of a general public-organizational nature. `
yoke and issue No. © point of view of proletarian tendencies
KUL ly - Tina u NG ‚ zy 5 ь + dz
for Can. a weapon of self-defense in the class struggle to become a weapon of organiza-
yawning character, brooding about the development of a new psyche and a new culture?
‚ oo\In a future society, we will have to talk about normalizing production
1) in terms of meeting the needs of the human collective and 2) from the point of view
iation of the physiological norm of human endurance. And this very norm
stamina will go away; likely; ‘far beyond the limits of naliya under other conditions
life. “Culture of attention”, which A. Bogdanov talks about in “Red
“Star” will do its job. pi
Now Taylor invites workers to increase their endurance standards beyond
ki of all kinds, physiology *); although he calls his experiments a “spider” organization
labor" etc. although even A, Tasov puts Taylor next to him for some reason in Gilfer-
dingom.-tThis is probably also a ‘result. "the finest molecular analysis
’ ^ No. Or faboty voveem ‘edanio’ yet.
Got ZKaimta volume TU etr. 899 No. k
3) Capital volume T page 398.
eg 4) Omoletig A. Yurmanov "Taylor's System". Chapter 7. Ohm. finally ‘brochure A. God-
›’Danova “Between man and machine.”

© in a pronounced case the growth of the norm

and
No. 1-2 NROLETARIAN CULTURE. 47

- But in essence, Taylor only brings it to its overlong expression of the usual
the new tendency of capitalism is predatory” and labor force is not in
interests of society as a whole, and in the interests of a given capitalist
enterprises. m a i i g
only from the prol's point of viewetariat" as a classifier can be

will interpret the issue of normalizing production “in the interests of proper
scientific organization of labor, and not for the sake of the workers’ self-salvation. Alassova
self-defense is, of course, an organizational tool of enormous importance
to develop the solidarity of the proletariat and this combat cohesion. But that one
or another goal of individual acts of struggle is perceived each time from the point of
view of the state of things in today's day of the capitalist system and
therefore, it cannot always serve as an organizing ‘moment of the proletarian
skaya ideology. For his ideology is, first of all, the ideology of class—
organizer And his attitude towards the normalization of production requires enormous
research work in the field of labor organization and organization
exhaustion dk en over

In the development of proletarian culture, sufficient attention should be given to
place for scientific work. Literary and theater studios are still developing
are carried out much faster than in scientific laboratories. But it’s time to organize these too
laboratories. For in them a number of technical and economic issues must be resolved.
some problems of the future, and some of the important ones should be developed in them:
the latest trends in the culture of the proletariat: a conscious attitude towards pro-
labor processes, the ability to approach them from an organizational,
and not just your workshop. + one

But disagreeing with A. Gastev in the ‘number of ‘him very quickly, out of sight
prepared deductions and not agreeing with his methods of analysis, I
I welcome the appearance of his article on the pages of Proletarian Culture.
The issue is really ripe and requires the most attentive attention.
sewing. In identifying the “contours of proletarian culture” should play
its role is the study of labor processes 1) from the point of view of general trends
their development and 2) from the point of view of the organization of labor and production. Vyra-
fighting their ideology, the gyroletariat. will create new songs and hymns, new
images in painting and literature, new tasks ‘and methods in science but also—
and this may be the very thing. important - new consciousnessattitude towards processes
labor. The entire gigantic technical apparatus of world production must
be clear’ to the worker, & not only the ‘machine to which he is chained in a
pitalism. Almost all those who wrote about collectivism noted that in
In the future, the transition from one type of labor to another will be much more widespread
shorter, easier ‘and simpler’ than in capitalism, In ‘our era’ of transitional forms
management and general impoverishment, the opposite is put forward! *rebo-
The requirement is the requirement to attach ‘workers’ to their ‘work. But it’s a phenomenon
temporary. Professional' skills of a particular group of workers
cannot be considered a tendency of proletarian culture even though because; “what
the future will expand the ‘framework of application’ of ‘this Man’ and liberate’ this oR’itg
‘professionalism. 0 to ‘strengthen’ this ‘tendency’ the worker must
be able to widely embrace the world of work, its tools, techniques and systems. ^^“

Production and labor processes must become “understandable to him in general”
scrap, and not just individual narrow parts. mena chan.

‘Here we have a lot of work to do. She's huge, but she is
one of the necessary prerequisites for the ‘development’ of social ‘idology’:^

M. Smith. ^

55
‚ #8 ‚ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 1-2

yours we

and Sanya ooo __ Locomotive Cemetery.

A H SY her mind a ga dchvoaa

The significant path to you has grown. herbs, | ov Vsi
No. 9 Eco IA ok Stand there. dead, in the dust. Ab: om VAe UAC No.
There's tea at the rum, "Look." into the distance with rusty eyes, oh hell,

PUPPIES povorsnf yy" to-F fight price prayer or lnpletnelao 6

greenyikh Nok so go Mn a I, kaf
I want to dress our city cleanly. s not x

at Zhyfot. onvadr Yoko give us. redneck, TOVVO-I, OVOT su aGoa tsy Zy

o vdi® snokonevkh You fought fiercely ©. speeches re-veeO U
"UN smo "I tsy k zy from 'victory. t MK and Vlad

ma, No.) ‚mo E RU Lim i

aria Vyuzeeche ` So that. we are among the tomitish promads
the eyes of “yenakatssv Creativity, wonder Could with sister Manger”

K. ‚ . You tormented the night with the roar of a long martyr
fiidtatoy „ And plowed the labor of the VMA Boite Incas Viobnanc
ILever cre, vv tou in 4 in
May atavoane hto ito p rails body. pronnatiy, and, mustache
oao and alone "throwing sparks into the heavens. ME and you are the devil"
The days have sunk and what kind of mercy you have attracted. zishcheotoy, and,
NH, no.
"Kovno | nb about in nae and zvaoel
the end of the path is yours. "Treasure Palm and
brought out both oiVamtiaeshche rzhazoeerv lyli,..- with | r
imo ven ® sig, Rest in peace, dear monsters, with her
EKRUAKI.. Zh avVyi ao V, fighting over yawning cabbage soup
"ON 4 a prkfeudek oeayigu barely ma OvITO w M,
I a ito us 5 Rome sichero 1 (E m VI r

About Imam May and AT TT LLC 1

at 82. readings. |

—— (Questionnaire among the shadows of the Moscow Proletarian University).

Mu"! ‘ |
we `Prodela: ‚kyi‘university. temporarily closed. When. renoducing parishioners
tries to lead me. to, life, and to death with the counter revolution, when.
ry < friendly. by the local Polish Vo9mskikh, Vendee, then

They begin to consider it a matter, Secondary regime, but accepted. with
mi. ykh AMA DI, sotollnehyn

“The interests of the rear are being obscured, the interests of the front are being pushed forward,
vy. plan, i. More and more new and
new9. frames. Botniks, So they would be cut off from their proletariat. uni-
Were his first students who managed to study there for only (weeks.

‚Only, 6 weeks, ‘Term. so much. short; a 069 ‘enio for, but-
"victors of scientific work, which it would seem should not have remained with us
What are the coherent impressions from this first experience of joining the
and thoughts,

‚ There are instructor courses, which are by design. don't give in to yours
"more than six weeks, but then the program itself is adapted to this period
ku. The range of objects traversed is not large, information from them is given only
the most irrational, directly applicable in practice. Methods of receipt
they are ignored. In short, six weeks is sometimes enough,
to “train” cadets to carry out this or that path
companies,

Not so at the proletarian university. `These 6 weeks were the beginning of the
one-year course of work on a very broad program, updatedwhich was all important

No. iv PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 49

the greatest branches of human knowledge. And this hole conducts the integrity
bringing life into life not gradually, but all at once. Year 1 was the year of introduction into the series
the most important scientific fields: mathematics, biology, physics, physiology,
history, economics, etc. `At the same time, oral and
writing, foreign languages and even shorthand. It seemed
would such a large number of new and diverse impressions immediately flood
attacked the newcomers to science, it was supposed to stun them and suppress them and only
gradually over time they would have to get used to this new
howl mental life, get used to it, both in general and in individual
parts. It would seem that the first six weeks could only leave an impression.
chaos, dulling of perception, inability to build something “system”
ot and whole from a mass of individual impressions.

And yet this is not true. }

A small and hastily conducted questionnaire among those present at that time
moment in Moscow, 83% of students at the former proletarian university have evidence
It seems that this is absolutely not the case: the vast majority of answers paint such a picture.
distinct and bright without a conscious attitude towards objects
passed during these 6 weeks, to the general tasks of the proletarian university
tag and his role in the construction of Soviet Russia, it’s amazing.
It is clear that people pounced on knowledge not only with greed, but also with
with a certain volitional effort to master this weapon, precious to them,
It is clear that the work of perception and assimilation of the acquired knowledge was
extremely intense and in-depth process of their thought.

In such a short time it was impossible to get any completed
knowledge, many write about this and then everyone, like one person, adds,
what the university gave them. no less a lot.

And then there is either a list of individual sciences that stopped at
self-attention of the student, or the characteristic of that mental impulse that
he received during these six weeks.

There are only 4 questions on the application form.a:

1) last name, first name and patronymic,

2} how long did you study at the Proletarian University,

3) what did the ‘proletarian university’ give you?

a) in the sense of general development,

6) in the sense of familiarization with individual objects and which ones.
4) Your attitude towards the proletarian university:

a) is it desirable to open it: 1.e in the future

6) and why.

There was no preliminary preparation before filling out the questionnaires.
instructing. Most of them were filled in haste, almost
go. All the work was carried out in two diyas, two working days, because the students
proletarian university are currently working either in the Central
school of party and Soviet work, or in party organizations,
and their working day is usually very long.

All this did not interfere with the clarity and distinctness of the answers on the one hand
us, nor the fervor and enthusiasm on the other.

Regarding the first question, “what did the proletarian university give?”
count only 69 responses, because the remaining 13 respondents arrived on time
Easter holidays and we haven’t started studying yet. And yet on the second
the question “is your attitude towards the proletarian university, is it desirable or is it

discovery in the future and why,” 81 received not only affirmative, but also
and almost enthusiastic responses. And only one of the respondents refrained from
answer to this problem.

Let's look at the first question first. -

And 69 replies received, 36 talk mainly about one or another
subjects that they have mastered, and 33 also give a general character-
teristics of your intellectual experiences and acquisitions for these 6.

4
/

Proletarian culture. No. 11-13.

6
50 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 11-12

weeks From among these 33 we have to single out a special one. group c. $answer
coms who formulate their impressions with a higher degree of accuracy and
consciousness. ®. K

These latest answers speak not only of broadening one’s horizons, but also
impetus for further independent work, etc., but definitely note
They say that the university gave them the opportunity to master the method of scientific work
you‘ieven to reveal its goals. And. |

Thus, if we divide these 69 answers into 3 groups based on
the ability of those answering to ascend from the Particular to the General, then we will have to acquire
register 36 responses or "the total number of them in the group that did not show
such skill, 2 answers or 8 9, total number in the group that demonstrated
such skill to a sufficient extent, and finally 8 answers or 12°. to the group
demonstrated this skill to a very high degree.

For psychological statistics 48°/, answers that satisfy the recognition
ku ability to ascend from the particular to the general, this, of course, is a very big pro--
cent, & 12°). answers satisfying this criterion to a particularly high degree -
The penalty is an even greater percentage.

Any group of people, whether several dozen or several
hundreds or several thousand, will give significantly lower percentages of generalization
general thinking, if you ask her to convey her observations of such a phenomenon
the same difficulties as these 6 weeks of university were for the students
training. , |

But, of course, in this case we are the high percentage of generalizers:
aspiration is not only a characteristic of the student group, but also
establishing their attentive and soulful attitude towards scientific work,
done by them’ during these 6 weeks..

Here we present a number of characteristic answers from both pears who were able to summarize
make your observations.

Three things: what the proletarian university gave you.

The answers are general in nature.

t

'

Group K

1. Made it clear what you need to read and how you need to understand what you read,

2. a) The Proletarian University helped MIE draw the line between bourgeois
zhuaznoy and proletarian science and introduced them to both, c). interested
science and gave a general concept of political economy and history, from the point of view
view of the proletariat. | meh

8. Interest in science was aroused enormously. '

4. Interested and made possible the further development of my knowledge.

5. I began to introduce ‘scientific knowledge’ that I was interested in
vases for further development. 1 I.

6. I perceived the general features of the knowledge taughtaniy and in sravie-
research with bourgeois science, I begin to understand the social spirit of the
leniya. | |

7. He gave me a path to further development, namely, he expanded the sciences,
which I had no idea about. PS coma

8. Gave many concepts about proletarian science and a concept about all science,
as necessary for man in his political and economic struggle and
fight against nature... Although I was engaged in a ‘short’ time, I realized that only
science can make human life easier. - !

t 9. Received a general direction, path, plan and found out what was in store
from itself science. y © oe;

10. Some new items that I only knew existed
by hearsay they opened a new world before me... . 1). Only in uni-
At university, I stopped being afraid of mathematics, which I could not tolerate before.

11. Introduced me to some new academic titles, gave me the opportunity to

further self-education. ‚to,
No. 11-12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE 51

12. Despite its short-term existence and importance,
little preparedness, I testify that And you m: -t laid
I have in me milestones for approaching all sciences. th

18. Expanded my horizons, despite the short stay.
14. Before I went to university, I read books, they, etc.
My “attention” was narrow and primitive. After, albeit a short pre-
visiting the university. ;‘. L; ;. :'Ivrutozor is significant (rasigi-
thought, I kind of entered partly into the course of the social movement and according to that
opportunity to study: social sciences ‘through’ self-education ^ d

15. Although it’s a short time, the university is my “kruYo”
and my general understanding of science ‘and outline the path to’ solving the problem

16. Before entering the university, read and analyze literature
she couldn’t... g...iva ‘time spent in the u-te got acquainted at 8%.
boron of literature and began to read and tie up loose ends. =

17. The maximum that was possible: in such a short period
time, an

18. Broadened my horizons. } MUN m

19. Expanded my horizons, awakened it to Env in: and

20. He set milestones for the next path and gave abouta lot to know
< science. I, as a peasant, did not even know the boundaries between existing
we know that it’s very clear to me now,

. For P/, I received a month of training at the Proletarian School. 'oh rare
no. in the sense of their own political development. thoughts‘ 6" "m rxist
point of view, Systematized his small 'applied sciences'
I acquired a lot of new knowledge,

22. Proletarian University” in a short time about its wide
Education in sciences (listing follows}.

23. Kindled a thirst for knowledge and hope. for satisfaction’ and after
covering regret, sadness. and the charm in [oh, the forests was
completely broken.

tagik

Group I.

1. The most important thing; gave 'methods of study and 'approach' to the notory "$ dots
from the point of view of Marxism, moved forward self-awareness and interested
objects, forced himself more ‘thoroughly and more’’ 96 Yarobvo ‘zaanb-
to struggle with the ‘sciences,’ without even waiting. tit el hi. bark

^ 3.. Gave a method for using science: ; ig. us

3. Gave a general method for using inukhie and kan her polzbveuya in day-
neyshem. oe IER

‚4. He gave a general method for using science, we caught the tube passing by
Ishria parsing. facts encountered in life: th

5. Helped to master the method of further forint Fe

6. Fully convinced of the need to develop a new scientific “method”
dology, with the help of which it will be only possible to extract all the values
new and necessary from bourgeois culture in order to create and strengthen
real proletarian culture and ideology: E\aa bb

7. In such a short period of study ‘u.t’ gave ‘very emibgo; I* have 610:
Its more correct presentation of the whole of science and its application to life.

8. First of all, he taught me to distinguish between bourgeois sound and pro
tarsk tu. and systematize the knowledge that! I had.

Thus, in the first group it is revealed very clearly. “what” is shit: `
These are former students of the proletarian university from that’ New Than” they are.
mastered in the first few weeks of ‘work: I’ more new, hitherto unknown _
horizons of scientific thoughtand, the path to further work; extended "ru 030
familiarization with the “social spirit of thinking”, ‘approach to’ everything ‘on
ability to read and understand literature and: even’ ‚certain ` most vi-
did we mean political development from the Marxist point of view?
Does the second group talk about even more precious treasures of thought? "method"

*

at

2+
52 IROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 11-12

r

“The use of yavuka.” and Ino prodooroninitsi about the chi of science and wine
bringing her to life." 0.s

And in both groups, according to instructions D for acquiring the skill “de-
identify bourgeois 4 ot. proletarian." ’

‚ These are the results for 2 groups of generalized answers: Unawamiya, on the other hand,
koleniya s. individual items are found in ‘all. 3 groups, and at the same time
at the time: wow. These instructions are not limited to a simple ‘list of items’
“for a long time, but they also note why, or how interested they were in this subject,

“They usually answer like this: “I got a clear idea of the political
economy”, “studied basic algebra”, “became acquainted with biology as a science
about the living world and its development”, gained an understanding of literature”, “learned
“methods of oral presentation” and teaching. Number of indications about: interested-
ties separate. m ifk are thinning out to the media soon: tan

AI ‚ Podetical economy 0 ozh, is „0404 readings
7 mathematics,;..}........., 87 readings -
I'm suing. sy 060000 $
Worker's story. movements. kitsch 16 si
and nora about social: consciousness “40... 16 ue
mipokacs o ®tods of oral attachment. . ‹. Ze 2 k
new languages. .. com wow idiot. No. 0 and
Foyle about written, presentation x skidded 18 m
pongoso ABOUT TOVOryufYi with hiokoepytinich you iekka M m
ata Russian avyuesyu emialolo r, No. 9 >
1 Social history of Europe in the 19th century. , :._ 8 $
Vossai otorija,. revolutionary movement. or: 8000$
holding; ‚ uoknkonron gi 25). men6 ts, ©
PHYSIOLOGY „this is VizhovOK r thief 4th
Outcome history-literature) and fleece davi de ie 7
` Soviet Constitution. ........ Zin

“o Thus, “attention was focused primarily on political
Sky 2 horseomy, mathematics and biology. Average! number of readings when
goes to the history of the worker. movements and science 06: public consciousness,
as well as on a number of practical ‘subjects, such as languages and methods of ‘oral and
written presentation. History collects a relatively ‘small number’
indications. An explanation is needed; note that not all students studied
all the listed items; for example, the science of social consciousness
I was just talking. group. more than ‚prepared, amounting to no more than a quarter
total number; world studies - only less prepared. In addition, ‚lek-
tions according to the advised constitution, & also according to darkness om chonyo na-
the end of the day

‚9 hey (lag y} to |}

``Let us now move on to the ``9th'' question: “Is the discovery of the proletarian
MK 'university.in the future and why'.

and the first one. part of this question from 82 people. ‚81 gave; how are we already
They said, above, ‘not only positive, but also ‘enthusiastic’ responses..
As for the argumensative part of the question, the answers to it are divided
t, ‚truishi, 0

‚1) Answers that thaw ` ‘usaversiteg, based on the general ones. considerations ©
Enini, her education: for the construction of socialism.
Answers that ›tag the university as a class center. oh,
both of them, and the last group, are singled out as special. subgroup. ^›.
Answers, opposing, proletarian university. state-
about the school of nya Ai, Fovotonoy work and. get rid of him.
independent role.
No. 11-12 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. 83

Out of 81 positive’ answers to the ‘dead group’ there are 29 ‘responses’ or,
36°/, the total number of them, to the second in total, 52 answers or 64°); third group
pa, separated from the 2nd gives 22 answers or 15°/, the total number of them,

Here are a number of responses from each group: ' and t,

„Group TG.U

1. Premature funeral ‘flight. having drunk his zaivieny ChN by
at least a huge mistake; didn’t take into account everything—the pros and cons of existence—
its use in the national interests, because the “command”
The Gubernia Committees and Gubernia Executive Committees who gave us ‘wanted to seethere are helpers in us and
replacements of their thinning ranks, ‘ebortsov’ in the ‘organization of the kingdom of labor*_
". And they were not mistaken, for the plan and program of the university gave
comprehensive development for future creative work for everyone

‘to the student proletvrius. Having graduated from the university, each of us could be an active
a dedicated and persistent champion of the rights and interests of the proletariat; -what from us and
demanded the exhausted and tormented so-called cabbage soup of the Gubernia Committees and the Public Executive Committees.

2. The opening of a proletarian university is desirable because it will
You can get a degree in all fields there. complete form; closed
captivity of the acquired knowledge can be acquired ‘at. Reading Help’
books. a university can release a person if there is a long period
fully prepared for the struggle to complete the social revolution. |

5. Building ‘life’ requires ‘suitable ‘workers’ in all’
sectors of society. There are only workers 'heads of diya centers?'
The notes of the connecting elements are lost as a result. mass would swarm ouabstvo"
workers due to lack of coordination at work.

4. Why is it necessary to reopen the span. will it knot? Because
it’s hard to fight all the abnormalities that the Soviet regime has
there are many; and, without weapons and dew, these ren
ity is difficult to eradicate.

5. I consider it necessary to open a university and: continue the planned
trogram, because only with our knowledge and science we take the shortest road
we will come to victory. The village is dark, and without social science we can fight it
nothing. A. Therefore, despite our most difficult time, we must day and’
Let us study and through science we will achieve a speedy victory. Yes to Vienna.
renewed Moscow Proletarian University. |

6. Its discovery was certainly timely. Why is it different?
We don’t have a lot of workers, so we don’t “operate” on slogans only,”
Don't we have enough strength? Are 400 “slogan” workers the deciding factor?
fate of pene Our strength is in knowledge, and we must get it before we pe-”
period of wrestling"This is the only guarantee of our victory. From experience
work in Samara, Tula and Moscow, I know that when “establishing a swarm

and Soviet work“ “you just have to cut and design. s

Group Pa. <

1. Is it desirable to open it in the future and why? Yes, preferably
because the proletarian university is our native university, which
the revolution was underway, and it trained the leaders of the proletariat, who are now
here, and also in the future, t&k are necessary for the proletariat as the leadership
leading organ in the class struggle.

2. Is its discovery desirable and why? Desirable and possible 6but-’
rey, because the proletariat is responsible in the face of history, because’
the proletariat needs to create its life and culture with its own hands, in’
without knowledge; even small ones, he will not be able to create a life for himself, Proletariau ^
the doors of knowledge have opened wide and therefore there is no time to waste

3. It goes without saying that we dream about its discovery. we find
this is necessary, because the working class for complete triumph over Burmia
the serpent must snatch from her the last weapon - knowledge.

28
54 PROLETARIAN CULTURE? ID no. 9

to 4" I find that the proletarian university could give class development,
Om is so needed by the working class, and create our socialist
the state needs much needed builders. about | I 7

The opening of a university is not only desirable, but a proletarian uyi-
The university as such must be open. Prsletarsky vision
The university is the best educational institution, ‘meeting all questions and requirements
vaniyam of the prodetariat, Proletarsky, the university must prepare the
leaders who would replace our leaders, at the present time, predatory
exploited by the proletarians themselves. wasp in

. 6.)The opening of a university is necessary so that young sprouts

social, the teachings have grown, strengthened and turned into ‘powerful mouths:

socialism. osi ‘am chin i: fight chom

‚ Art. Of course, the university must be open. in the nearby
future. The proletariat of Russia conquered the politicallegal and economic power.
But there's still some left. One area where the bourgeoisie dominates is science. Pro-
the letariat must snatch this too from the hands of the bourgeoisie, Science must serve
proletariat, &. In order to conquer science, he must have a dream ‘pro-

letariat university, where he will forge—create his own, dear, .

proletarian. science and culture, . 1218
›. 8..I can’t even express my attitude towards the proletarian university
tetu and, quite. Wish. openings. him, but already if. Ts, K. cannot do this. drained
If we consider the difficult situation now, then let it be. his existence
carried out in. future, because. that this educational institution is necessary as
center science. proletariat. Ma. n ©"
9: Proletarian University. necessary as the highest proletarian educational
establishment, like laboratories. and a hotbed of proletarian culture.
10. I consider it necessary for the proletariat to have its own class university..
- 4 This is a special discovery. in the future? Yes. desirable, and desirable;
Maybe we won’t study in it, but let others learn; at least
know "that... it. exists. and. persists: We. will know; that our
class, the class of the proletariat, has. yours. laboratory where he could get
all that knowledge for which he “fought so long, and it would be desirable to have,
theirs. class workers and 'teachers, with and"

‚›12, “What, I grabbed: the proletarian university, thinking of replenishing.
his knowledge to a lot of people, in which I was firm. I’m sure I won’t get it
had to in. view of ‘his’ short-term existence and secondment
me for political work, Tsoutomu here is my most urgent requirement: with

improvement of the external and internal political ‘stability of the proletariat’

that is necessary. opening. proletarian university, in which the proletarian
skiy. the class could enjoy the knowledge of scientific and political training,

which are necessary...to him, as a weapon. c. fight with your enemies; and ‘if.

the idea of a proletarian ‘university’ will die out, then. it will be great. defeat
diya proletarian slavewhat a class.

13. Is it desirable to open it: in the future? Very much so, because
only. Irodetarian, science, proletarian education can lead to social
lazm, to realization, when all humanity will be imbued with proletarian
science, Why" I. Wish. obligatory ‘opening it, - because only
science makes life easier for humanity in its existence and struggle with nature:

14. With the opening of the proletarian university, we are workers and peasants
I could get what I need. to the proletariat for its struggle both with
economically and politically. The proletariat cannot exist without “izuka”
can exist, and, despite such a difficult moment, the existence of
letarian, university, it is necessary and very desirable that the proletarian
the university has been preserved,

‚ (19, Is it desirable to open it in the future and why? It is desirable,
because he is our institution, ‘c. to which their proletarians will be created,
forces and which will speed up the approach. to ours. desirable. communist
No. 11-12 NORLETARIAN CULTURE. 55

society, for this acceleration is not only in the interests of the Russian to fly
riat, but 'm international, 'and therefore I would welcome from the bottom of my heart again
opening of a proletarian university in the future. `

16; It is not only desirable, but must be ‘open and open’.
treble' university, as an educational institution that meets all the needs and
demands of workers and peasants. to

The proletarian university is the best educational institution in which
In this way one can obtain knowledge that is completely necessary for the proletariat.

17. Is it desirable to open it in the future? It is very desirable in sa-
in the near future, if possible under martial law
republics. Golko in such ‘educational institutions as the proletarian university
shtet, workers and peasants can obtain the necessary knowledge to
then, armed with them, become skilled workers. ‚ =

18. Is its discovery desirable in the future and why? It is highly desirable
because just as a hungry person needs a piece of bread, so a worker needs science.19. There is no word that would express everything loudly and strongly enough
the necessity and entire significance of the proletarian university in an era of acute
class struggle, at a moment when the proletariat is at the helm of entire state-
villages, when the proletariat faces the opportunity, if today, then
tomorrow, ‘will seize power in almost the entire globe, Thinking,
that only political shortsightedness and inability to assess the possibilities
The new course of development of social forces and their relationships can lead to
denial of the urgent need for a proletarian university, as well as pro-
Letarian science in general.

20. Taking into account that I previously studied at higher academic institutions
only the bourgeois class, and the doors to the proletariat were closed and kept
stung the proletariat in darkness, now that the working class is in power, then
it is necessary to give all science in favor of the proletariat only, because science
will be a great weapon in the hands of workers and peasants against the long-term struggle
most closely with the bourgeoisie, because, as fact has shown, during the period of our struggle
we have neg workers, & the bourgeoisie, occupying high positions, sabotage everywhere
It’s hard for us to fight too. s

21; When asked about my attitude towards the proletarian university, I can
exclaim loudly. Long live the revival of your great pro-
Let's go to the university, which gives hope to receive what we have
uncontrollable desire: the title and light that gives us, the proletarians, for the windows -
final trial of the proletariat over the bourgeoisie, which has captured in its clutches
nvuku and for centuries did not allow us to get what she herself had.
The proletarian university with its extensive program can give our
communist country of those young strong comprehensively developed races
timks and even leaders, whom our old exhausted leaders are waiting for: and-
nal revolution of the web is being replaced. We, the new ‘October revolutionary’
proletarian shoots appeared hardened in the October revolution, in us
a lot of strength and energy, give us more knowledge and we will prove to everyone Sur-
to the zhuaz world that we are more capable of our newth world to build on this foundation
ment laid down by our fathers—the leaders of communism. May ours rise again
proletarian university. a

Group "I.

1. Why is it desirable to open a proletarian university?

Already because the experience of short-term courses has shown how this can be achieved
Olya has little staunch, unshakable defense of the interests of the proletariat class. Classo-
university’ must in the future cleanse the bourgeois shell of the human
eternal experience accumulated in the struggle of centuries to represent it
the proletariat in its purest form. In order to bring science closer to
the proletariat needs to work a lot, and this work could be done
only proletarian ‘class universities’ in which they will be concentrated.
the best forces of scientific communism. In the center of Moscow there are the best

19
56 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 11-12

the leaders of the proletariat and only under their leadership is it possible. would be to educate.
future fighters for the ideas of communism, namely fighters, “not ordinary workers”
niks who will replace our tired, glorious leaders. It is necessary
take into account that the students at the Prolegarian University are
elk seemed to be a representative of the entire Rbosai working intelligentsia, and this
it was important to use the intelligentsia to give “knowledge” of the area,
scientific socialism, so that, having received it, she would transfer ‘them to the people—lem: org’
nations to which they were sent. and

As long as classes exist, it is necessary. class scientific education through"
universities as a weapon in the struggle of the proletariat for its ideals,

2. 1) having been on the Council for the last year, “I have a different kind of family”
meetings there was such an opinion that when we discussed issues. such sometimes"
were decided without foresight, but. sometimes to the detriment of the revolution. I think." what"
We all spoke out and decided, thanks to specialization, we cannot,
embrace m and connect with the general environment. and come to Arabizny
conclusion. 2) Being 5 months not regularly in my lips, in the people's university
site, I have now endured such a vtsechatlevie.a) big, different tse" ow
teachers, 6) a big difference in the methods of study, c), gremady di-
difference in teaching by bourgeois and propetarian teachers, “these”
I feel all the differences, and some of them have already been firmly grasped. 3)..V. marodnym gosu-:
endowed universities, thanks to incorrect “selection”, (Mencin
and other elements), it will not be possible to reach the proletarians. Mayusam,. kah. clubhouse
production, what he needs, about. Fomiya ai

3) If the People's Commissariat for Education. Ozkrysh again
proletarian university, then his. for, this step could only be done with.”
greet. ;

“In Soviet Russia, an organization was built, on organization; all these
organizations are ‘filled with non-producing elements that are like ants
fumbling around, but they are of no use. And this turns out to be because they are not.
they want to work, but because they don’t know and don’t know how. work. For, v9s-
In order to establish a destroyed economy, organizers are needed to develop it.
new laws of development of social movements. Such organizers may
to give only a proletarian university, and not schools like the central one,
school of party and Soviet work, which will soon release its 2nd cast
cadets who will turn out not to be organizers, but to quickly ripen pancakes,
of which we still have a lot everywhere and of which there is little use, 5...

4. As before. presently there were bourgeois universities
for the privileged classes, where young people came from, alien
workers and peasants, and today. transitional time, on Rada ©
state universities, proletarian universities should also be created
universities in which science should be taught to students. © @already-
using essentially modified methods, since people were pouring into the old universities
with many years of systematic training. Previous pedagogy and methodology
I only meant people living in normal conditions and having
a lot of leisure. The proletariat needs to look for new ways to master science,
The proletarian university must also exist in order to
create a compact kernel forline proletarians and develop in them
a certain view of things, which cannot be done in the bourgeois uniform
university, where individual proletarians will get lost among the bourgeois-philistines
masses and will fall, as less developed, under their influence.
`` 1. Is its discovery desirable in the future? I read it as necessary
opportunities in a short time, Why? Because before we
did not have the means to obtain such knowledge and education, and now
state universities will exist where there is a diversity of
public, and our only one in the world is closing. e
`` 6. Is its discovery desirable in the future, and why? It is desirable because
There is no educational institution yet that could fully satisfy
No. 11-12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 57

“To meet the demands of the proletariat, as for the state university, .
then he is unadapted to the demands of the proletariat, since
admission to it requires certain preparation, which
the proletariat does not have. at

©) Proletarian university, in contrast to the state university
theta, is the highest institution of a scientific nature, purely class-based,
where is the listener, without dissolving in the philistine masses and the professional
re, can be developed into the best orthodox Marxist
hundred, capable of being a communist leader, leading the masses, being
good help to tired comrades after a fierce class struggle -
would. At the present difficult time for Soviet Russia, he can serve
political militant body, and the K. Party at the right time can
send listeners to the necessary place of struggle. That's why it's desirable
opening immediately, now.

In the first group there are sorrowful lamentations and lamentations. "It's hard"
it was possible to fight all the abnormalities that the Soviet government has -
There's a lot." “The village is dark, and without social science there is nothing to fight it with.”
“Don’t we have a lot of workers, don’t we just rely on slogans?”
In other groups there is a rather harsh assessmentthe current situation: “
Being on the Council last year, after various kinds of meetings, I
there was an opinion that during the discussion of issues such were discussed
without foresight, and sometimes to the detriment of the revolution.” “The period showed us
your struggle that we don't have. workers, and the bourgeoisie, occupying high positions
You are cooperating everywhere and it’s difficult for us to fight.” “In Soviet Russia.
organization is built on organizations, all these organizations are filled with unproductive
leading elements that swarm like ants, but do no good
from them."

''Based on this assessment of the situation, the role that can
to play a proletarian university in educating the builders of socialism
ma: “there is no word that would express all the need loudly and strongly enough.”
we need to understand all the significance of the proletarian university in the era of acute claoso-
howl of struggle, at a moment when the proletariat is at the helm of the entire state.”...
This motif is repeated in the vast majority of testimonies from all three groups.

And no less often, no less definitely, appears in the testimony of the group
the second and third motive is about the class: significance of the proletarian university:
“Only proletarian science, proletarian education, can lead to
socialism to implementation." “The proletariat of Russia has conquered the political and
economic power, but there was only one region left, Elets, where bourgeois dominated
Juzzia is a science. The proletariat must wrest this region from the hands of the bourgeoisie.
juisie... And in order to conquer science; he must ‘have his own prole-.
Tara University” ‘etc. The same logical line goes along with the argument
the formation of the third group, which opposes its university to the state
nomu and central school. }

But the loudest, most powerful wishes were heard in all the testimony.
about the new opening of a proletarian university. “I consider it necessary from-”
close the university and continue the planned program." "Not only
late, but the proletarian university, as such, must
be 'open'. “Very desirable” and in the very near future,is this
possible in the conditions of martial law in the republic." "It is very desirable,
because just as a hungry man needs a piece of bread, so a worker needs science.”
If the People's Commissariat of Enlightenment had reopened the proletarian
university, then one could only applaud him for this sha’.”

all these confident in s6be, certain answers are covered by loud
the exclamation of a young enthusiast declaring; “When asked about my attitude towards
To the proletarian university I can loudly exclaim: “long live”
There is a revival of his proletarian university!“.

zo
58

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 11-12

We are publishing the results of this questionnaire, and 910 “loud exclamation”
not for the sake of an apology for the ideas of the proletarian university, or the experience of its six-
week's work. The idea of a proletarian university is in no way
does not need, & as for the six-week work experience, it was too
com is brief, so that the organizers of the university want to build on
there are no conclusions. But all the students' answers to the first question
and on the second, they definitely found out the fact: maybe professors
The university gave them little, but from this little dream, the students worked hard
extract and have extracted an awful lot: the understanding is enormous. the roles of the proletarian
University in the construction of socialism; and therefore, no matter what
was the attitude of professors and organizers of the ‘university’ to this issue
that, doubtful or confident, negative or positive, opinion
students should be published independently of other opinions.

They are the best judges in this matter.

m©.

Chronicle of Proletkult.

In proletkults.
(According to reports)

In the present time, ‘when Proletkultov-,
skoe movement, taken in the All-Russian
scale, has about a year of tension behind it
hard work and struggle, one can be sure
It’s safe to say that the idea of Proletkult

took deep roots in the ‘work environment, ›.

that his main task, which boils down to
to the development of new principles of original pro-
letarian culture, found out before ra-
with a sideways claes clearly and definitely.

The movement, which initially spread in breadth,

then it poured deeper. This is a fact. They talk about him
ryat figures coming from the area Prolet-
cults, it is stated by applicants
reports; Now, we’re reading about the same thing. and in
provincial press.

Thus, the Samara Proletkult sees the inevitable
false task facing the worker
class, in that; so that he can create his own culture
tour, proletarian culture, sang svom’
songs, drew his own pictures, created his
music, established his own scientific and artistic
national schools and universities, |

The task is definite. The goal is clearly outlined
naya, not allowing two interpretations.
What are the concrete ways to achieve it?
and the routes followed by the Nroletkults?

All information coming from the field is
They say that Chroletcults organize
a number of studios in which tensions take place
einvzya work on creating: new cultur-

ny values. The studios are built on ©0-„

completely new beginnings. This, by definition,

of the Borovicheny Proletkult, organiza-

tion of creative cooperation ‘aspiration-
those seeking knowledge, organization, which, according to.
her Oryol Proletkult, in

The work itself carries out the ideas of communism. =
Of great interest are those methods
dy chair work that ‘creates

Proletkults, those searches for new forms

creative paths that characterize
activities in the studios.

“That air.
‘social topics’ were carried out jointly with the time-

The searching Proletkult sees the task “1i-
performance studio in that; to woo
employees read creatively, read pa-
borator; in order to master the method of writing,
Accordingly, the studio, divided by two
departments - general and special. In lane"
lectures are given, the purpose of which is 608-
provide an atmosphere conducive to pro-
Tara creativity. Special Branch
strives to help the studioians - the proletvians

themselves, make it easier for them too
to master the technique, Here they are introduced,
with the history of Russian verse, with the theory of bad?
natural word, artistic form
and sinking, . \av 4.
` In the Smolensk Proletkult literaturerivya
the studio is divided into three departments: writers
and poets, scientific and newspaper workers.

`In I know what happens collectively. chatka
oh

of their own and other people's works.
The principle of piloataraoi 2% is more consistent
bots in Belevsky Proletnult (Tula

‘lip.). Here the studio members are trying to
In a different way, compose plays and dramatizations:

from r life, etc. ;. |
In many Prolegults there are irya
literary studios departments of journalism
ki, whose task is to create proletarian cadres
Chinese journalists. Usually such departments
fall apart ‘into parts: editorial, technical
nic, organizational; they are conducted
practical exercises on compiling 6ta-
tei, feuilletons, etc.

In close ideological connection with literature
studios 'is 'studio activities
echatral. Taz, theater studio

‘Ulsky Proletkult was staged
r development october
since the revolution“, , IA
‚Vepevsky Proletkult decided to create where-
cloudy ‘mobile theater for performances
factories, workshops and schools opened
When ‘setting up the drink’

bodies, interviews, were organized
“trials” over the content of plays and their performance
Negence.
No. 11

With, fine arts created
in the vast majority of Proletkults,
Many of them look at themselves, kah na
Nupturally. Creative production
organizations are trying to identify commu-
stic idea in the works of studio artists,
on IR mday essence once"
ny Soviet institutions and their differences
from, similar, pre-existing,
U i. va

The majority of Proletkults take content
zhanie for work in their studios depicting
body arts issues and pressures from
life, in a gas way, to proletariat,
Studios perform padcats for decoration
Soviet institutions, streets and squares
for celebrations, quarrels against the enemies of ra-
boche-peasant republic, scenery,
banner, etc. Moreover, it should be noted that
that in many studios this work is produced
It is common to fall down collectively; pre-
The studio members are discussing the idea together
of this poster, painting and the form of her art
executed in a feminine mannerya,

Questions to the proletarian, oh music serve as a pre-
mega-intensified attention of the majority
Proletkultov. In this direction some
some of them developed a wide range of activities
ness, So, music studio Petrograd-
sky Proletvult has solo classes
and choral singing, piano, violin, viodon-
chedi, theory and solfeggio, great class
Russian instruments, guitar, mandolin
and cymbals,

Music studio of Tula Prolet-
control panel aims to give the worker
the opportunity to be a musician, although not
specialist, let each one exhaust itself
to the extent that he is capable of. When
The studio has a search bureau for new mu-
vocal motives. Working method here
that's how it is. The composer reads the production
vedgnie, the proletarian poet, are explained
its class moments and is proposed
transfer its content to musical
language. The created musical piece is critical
is forged collectively. When installing new opera-
of these excerpts, the studio members, before singing,
go through and perform things like a drama.

Some studios show
musical productions and experiments are made
you elementary analysis of images and re-
lives caused by them, with dismemberment
contents to pieces, Experiments are being carried out
independent composition of tunes, songs
and 'melodies,

This is the deepening work that
takes place in the studios of all Proletkults,
In an atmosphere of titanic struggle for their
social emancipation, with incredible
strong, almost exceeding human strength
ly, difficulties, the proletariat, although slowly
but, although by touch, it goes correctly
meeting towards a great goal - to forge a new
the sword in the heroic fight - its pro-

I'm plating culture. S.S.

Proletkult of the Red Army.

The latest events of the socialist re-
revolutions caused the need for temporary

5

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

59

th deviation of the Proletkults from their direct
our tasks in order to devote our energies to your
service of the Red Army. Pofti all pc-
active and responsible employees Prices:-
VM Committee, and ‘Also Moscow,

Etrogradek and other Proletkults
or onfront or directly at work
melt for the front, the remaining comrades so-
did not strain their strength to do in
to the rear everything possible for the needs of the army. Presi-
podium of the Central Committee of the All-Russian
th Council of Proletkult sent out a circular

new appeal, ardently calling on the fly-
| 2 1: r

you give the maximum to your employees and students
diians for work on the Red Front, abbreviated
keep your main work to a minimum.

Despite the fact that you remained in place
a small number of employees, judging by
according to information coming from the field, the province
quickly responded to the call of the center. Yes,
for example, Tambov Governorate Prolet-
the cult decided to give all his strength
work in the Red Army, what was it for?
decided to come into contact with agigirosye-.
volume under the Gubvoenkom on issue 0b of the organi-
nization of propaganda-useful entertainment
for Red Army soldiers, create a contact information
commission from n, e representatives of Gubproletkul-
ta, Agotprosveta, Narodobraz.

Proletkult magazine “The Coming Culture”
tour" developed an intensified propaganda campaign
Bot, in addition, the magazine’s staff
took an active part in the magazine
Agitirosvet: “Red Army Man and Worker”,
attracting to work in it not only
all its employees, but also the studio
members of the literary studio, howl is arranged
“Red Army Day” with collection of donations
vovaniya and literature, conducting a large
program of concerts - mitivgov. Choir pa
“7 people and a theater troupe fly by”
cultists were sent to the front. Right there on-
edited and’ authors, storytellers, singers,
musicians, reciters. There were pre-
you travel to arrange concerts-mi-
tings in the province. About the same friendly
work in a larger or smaller scale lab
information was received from a number of cities.

from Kirsanov they say that in view of the stay
formation of military units, the number of which is from
Every day it increases, Proletka;: ь
directed all his work towards Iras-
noah armies, About the staging of a number of performances
reports Novo-Galitsky cat, No-
in Torzhekiy, Kodpinsky, Saratovsky, -
more details obtained from
Shatska,where a close organization is established
cial connection between Shatsky Proletkul-
Tom and Politirosvet in the creation of illu-
bov; from Yuryevets they report a number of lectures -
scenes about reading newspapers to the army soldiers
with an explanation.

In Livny, people were recruited to work in theaters
students of the drama studio, and
work is also carried out among the sick Comrade in
in the form of frequent rounds of the lavatories.

Attracts studio workers from Samar-
Proletkult, preparing them for the meeting
traffic police, non-certs and trips to the front, Shpro-
ko and multilaterally developed his work
music department of Petrograde Prodet.

<
60

cult; from January this year his work is tight
connected with the front, namely: a troupe from
29 people from ® to the Western Front
for collaboration with theatrical department
the case of Prolegult. Second corpse out of 45
send people to the Northern Front.
“Group 1 and 2 both use
with great success, the first one participates,
zhah auxiliary force, in all theatrical
ny productions, the second one is exclusively
at concerts and rallies in cities, villages,
camps of the Red Army, and most of all
in the very positions where you had to
step in an extremely combative situation and even
in the open air at 809 below zero, barely
what is three miles from the position, is coming to life
work in Smolensk, Rzhev and many others
‘places. To the call of the Central Committee
Child cults organized a local day
collection of literature for the Red Army; all
nor sent to the front. All performances
concerts and rallies are compiled according to the bright re-
revolutionary program and have a huge
organizational significance, being bright
indicator of organizational value using
arts, Where words had no effect, where
the green guards pressed hopelessly

building, there after artistic use-”

filling the revolutionary repertoire,
the structure changed dramatically, and our comrades
cabbage soup had the opportunity to give speeches,
illuminating the actual situation
business Trips to the front are appreciated by everyone
responsible employees of the Red Army,
` depending on the need for amplificationtheir. Some provincial military commissars decided
invite Proletkult to organize for
strnizona at least 4 concerts per month,

All this work caused by difficulties
ny situation of the revolution, evasive
Proletkult from its direct tasks, but only
*o temporary and inappropriate.

While the weight is for the front, then, with victory
‘revolutions, we will expand our work
building proletarian culture with
even more energy and enthusiasm.

E. .0,

About the work of the Tambov Proletkul-
that in the Red Army.

° Following the main slogan of our days—
everything for the red front - Tambov Gu-
Berneky Proletkult led an energetic
work to serve cultural
prosov Red Armin. For this purpose, Pro-
Letkult, together with Political Education Tam-
Bovokovy Gubvoeikom, organized two trains
ki of the mobile troupe in the prifrite
strip. Both trips took about 2 months -
tseg. During this time, a traveling troupe
The Tambov Proletkult was organized
more than 35 concerts-meetings in cities, seven-
likh and stations of the Tembov-Boriso-
Glebsk - Peyaza. .

Here's what he says about these trips
some of the troupe members: 8 heated vehicles and
ilalforma served as an apartment for the participants
troupe, sitad of literature and open
‘Ostrada. Three stops on the bomeya major
“attions, so as not to waste time on

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 11-12

scanning the room, pulling out the fovyg
or the pizza you had with you, and opened
or a concert-meeting. After the international
performed by the Proletkult choir, performed
Ivli speakers - member of the Cammunist
party T. G. and the proletarsk poet -
executive organizer of the trip V.K.
A program consisting of almost
exclusively from the works of the proletarian
creativity, imbued with military revolution
ational content is always enthusiastic
was received by an audience of Red Army soldiers,
workers and peasants. ‚Created quickly
living, close connection between practitioner, orz-

tor and listeners, and a strong re- grew.

revolutionary mood. it happened, it will go
rain, it should stop, but the crowd doesn’t blow
may disperse, we have to continuereap
in the rain, It’s already dark, chorus Prolet-
Nulta Violhead sings a funeral march
and to the sounds of his reciter Proletnult
t. (. conveys the speech of t. L. and death No. ib-
bollard and R. Luxemburg. Motionless, for-
holding our breath, © with our naked heads, on
there is a large crowd standing in the rain, ‘greedily
singing every word, every sound...
Then we read the works of M. Gorky,
Gastev and Kirillov. In the choir's repertoire
many new products - songs of proletarian poetry,
set to music by the choir conductor,
T.V. With special love, use the day
zueteya author-narrator A.P., original
humorous ‘stories of which, ridiculed-
religious ‘prejudice and coercion’
ity of philistine circles, they rejoice ‘in
listeners healthy laughter and serve together
with that great propaganda material
scrap, settle on a huge educational
the physical significance of such concerts

Xia

there are no tings, especially when taking “

taking into account the political emergency

“The population of the Tambov province has come to the rescue,

consisting mostly of wealthy
kulak element with extremely significant
a fraction of the organized proletariat.
The political departments of the headquarters of the southern army literally
but they didn’t want to let go of the mobile corpse-
pu Proletkult for further follow-up
nia, starving ‘possibly extend longer
the duration of her stay in the territories entrusted to them
army units.

The last train of the traveling troupe
the story was not at all prosperous, having left
Tambov at the end of July, trupia in Chiel 40
people, of which almost half are women
we expected to be on the road no more
fifteen days, but the Mamonton raid
band prevented the troupe from arriving in a timely manner
to go to Tambov and she had to stay in
the journey is about 40 days. People who had it
limited number of summer clothes and
underwear, stunned in a very difficult ass"
research; half of the women were barefoot

mi. It was raining; in villages where it was necessary"

corpses emerge, an impassable
dirt. I had to buy spare parts and

She also performed on stage in this guise of a corpse. .

larger citieschildbirth Philistine pu-
the glare is suspicious. looked at Mr.
Petarekh artists walking around ‘Go-
family in our and cotton handkerchiefs.
„No. 11-12

Despite this, the troupe continued to work
that one in the Red Army, having visited another whole
a number of towns and villages not planned in the first
initial route. Extremely exhausted
born, having several patients, and growing-
‘those who fought on the road, the proletkults returned
fled to Tambov at the beginning of September, having passed
on foot about 90 ‘turns along the Mor-

Shansk-- Tambov, }
V.K.

In the province.
(According to newspapers for the month of June).

Proletkults.
"Gula. Proletkult organized’ stu-
diy: Musical and vocal; ‚ literary,

fine arts, circus performance
art and general theoretical department, ustina-
infusing, since the works of Proletkul-
that meet the construction specifications flew by
skoy pulpit. Number of Tulyeko employees
th Proletkult reaches 2500 people. B
studios ‘work is underway on production and production,
and non-pricing, improvisation, content in
themselves elements of proletarian ideology.

The life of local theaters is pitted against
controlled by Proletkult; ‘city’ times-
scourge on four theater districts, leading
governed by the central tedtr of Proletvult.
The staging of performances is accompanied by re-
ferates. “Four months ago ‘Gub-
Proletkult organized children's ProNet-
cult. ›and it has a theater and theater
literary studio. There were 40 children
sent to the children's "Evd party" in VBogo-
roditsk. On the way, the children stopped at
sotamtsiyah and ‘arranged koitserii-meetings,
which caused delight and tears for three days -
existing public. The children saw off the places -
of the communes to the front, were at the meeting
ge among the miners' and 'here with his appearance
aroused attention and inspiration, In Bo-
Goroditsk also organized children's Pro-
letkult, ,

Apparently, with the assistance of Propetkult
organized communist work union
nicks of proletarian culture. His goals—
“to get rid of the dirty patina of bur-
zhuaznosti, revive its arc, forge
new artists." Union membersare
mainly employees of Gubprolet-
cult.

The Children's Magazine is being prepared for publication.

oletkult."

A. Proletkult has made a huge
work, Within the walls of the workhouse, where the premises
Proletkult, collected art
new values, open music studios; pe-
literature, drama, etc. A library has been opened. Ras-

decisively published by Proletkult
collection of poems by workers' poets.
Proletkult concerts ‘after unsuccessful ones

performances and dances were real
pleasure, One problem - workers and stolen goods
army men, by whom and for whom eo, ae1-
to her’ Proletkult, little in Proletkult itself:

Work at the proletarian university r.
rushes behind the walls of the auditorium in the Red Army -
ski units, to the station and other places, Uni-
verbetity evokes sympathy and hope among

39.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

61

local: population, The other day he was
xia large bibanotena, and

Kremenchug. After clearing the city of
the Grigorievites began to boil energetically again
work. Proletkult. ^

Kryukov (near Kremenchug). Organized
Proletkult. Resolution, taking the stake
ferences, calls for help in the cause of systematic
mobilization and promotion through
cultural and educational organizations
to carry out the ideas of Soviet power in the villages,

Ivanovo-Voznesensky. Proletnult, fortunately
giving mobilization of employees, works
elabo;

The same is noticed in Lirsanov.

K Iroanovo, Labor organizations, Agitation
enlightenment and the Department of ‘Social’ Obene-
donated to the Proletkult fund

22,000 rub.

Kashino (Tver province) Furniture Prolet- |

the cult was organized under the Profeyevionalny
Union. He is currently working on
unification of all existing in the county
cultural and educational organizations,

Tsaritsin. Friendly work is being established
Proletkult with the Department of Popular Education
calling. Initiative and thought leadership
in the work apparently belongs to Prolet-
cult.
_Oimbprek. Petrogradek Proletvult
7 concerts were organized, the estate ` large
success:
‚ At the call of Petrograd Iroletkul-
that 200 communists went to Voetoch-
ny fronu. `

Samara. The represen- tatives began work
teli of the Petrograd Proletkult, commander
dilated front services.

The village of Brasovo (Orlovekoy province). Span-
The cult was organized at the end of 11a, but
there is no real work. Failure. visible-
mu, is recognized by its presence in Proletkul-
those local intelligentsia who rebueg
to yourself special attention and honor. Raised
the question of expelling her from membership
Proletkult.

Workers' clubs.
‚Vitebek. Proletarian Club "May 1st"
serves up to 2,000 people daily. Head-
This work is studio. There are FTudii:
dramatic for 100 people, literary—
820 people and choir. The club has
theater, cinema, library. By. Saturday
there is an overview of current political
existence and inspection of studio works.
A club was opened at the Proletarsky University
site. |
Moscow, In seven clubs for teenage workers
Sushchevsko-Mariinsky district summer life
passes briskly. Garden work is underway
you, scouting and science classes,
There are excursions in the vicinity of Moscow-
you. Soon some of the teenage children will leave,
We are going on vacation to the summer colonies, under which
several estates near Moscow were allocated. _
At the communist club Rogozhevo-
Simonovsky about the cultural studio.
At the club of the People's Union of Workers
Citation open dramatic curva and.
choral singing courses. ._

t

and

A

to
62

‚In the Norovr House named after Alekseev
club with extensive 6.

“_ I opened a club on Malaya” Young
Chemistry at the Trade Union of Workers
sneezes and sniffles Ochakovo
„ Club “Rest ore” viVam

‘organizes every Saturday Wonzerthisien-
tions a | art
_ Khamovichesny district Clubs are growing in
rayoche in huge quantities; but they drag out
they are a miserable existence. In the majority
‘of these, not one issue of the newspaper
° In the jelly road workers’ club ‘at Bryamsky
No. 0’ evle is complete desolation. No neither
one shred of tattered. newspapers Manages
vi. thick belly in a uniform cap.
° He Vyazma Club is open. Sri club sex
tions: theater, music, art
Zeppvya, choral and others IE

OrStovo-Zuevo. Opened a club named after Libk-
Nekht la Zimin's Tooth Factory
° Istrograd in the Union of Woodworkers
organization planned and carried out
ilubov with prediryatyami In the clubs there will be

‘Stay away from lectures, interviews, assignments
axes it, d

R'olin 'Machal again. funiquize
stupid at the Alafuzov plant, in the garden
a platform for giving lectures is being built in the club
in the open air, & also preps-
Si arrange an open one. the stage is closed. for
noncertas and sung songs. Sections work:
leptionia, kulgurno-educational) -
drama and music clubs,

It is planned to organize circles,
matte and sports. When you're in the mood
stolon", bookstore, Fibliothena and
reading room, which... willingly visited,
There are two staff working in the theater: professional
small and amateur. '

15 a number of workers' clubs funkinoni-
there are musical shuols that benefit“
lot of greatest success among sub-groups and
young workers. People stand out, © pain"
great musical abilities
Freezing due to the onset of Kolcha-
vp. life in workers' clubs is now again
begins to merge and develops vigorously
diligence c. workers' club. gunpowder
zalodya. The club premises consists of 16
tsnamat. There is a wonderful lecture hall
hall, the library at the club has up to
$09 cost, :

"In_Kosmod" Mychisky district, (Kazan province)
‘there are four proletarian clubs,

Jaodrimek. (Kazviskoy g). "In, proletarian
Kluye has a dusty piano lying around
disheveled kitzhonki and more chichego,”

(Ineshma 4. A solemn opening took place
digging of the proletarian club at and"
be. Konovalova, Club premises pro-
gives off a pleasant impression, quite gar-
monitoring with the name of the proletarian.
in the room of my magazines and magazines,
Ievgeya gramophone and records with speeches
Leader of the Revolution, Top floor, occupied
tergr m, vniau tables "I, the reading room called
Iri club is scheduled to open a studio:
other" mathematical, artistic and degenerative,
muval, choral singing, sports and
leaf sciences.

PROLETAR) CULTURE.

among the workers

Part No. 11-412

Shuya At the proletarian central" il_
Vovani music section. and
-/ Vyatka. At several factories the organization
-We have shvol-clubs for adults and teenagers.
. Alanov ogo’ will be working in the studio
painting at work; Opens
"Capture Department and Museum of

premenchug. Opens at the People's House
exemplary workers' club.

nev. There is news about the Latvian ra-
bochem club av: POS 91

Oovetek. (Vyatskaya city). Live local raz-

club clubs is expressed in dancing, leisure time
conversation and tea parties. › 41
at Bryanek's, Work is underway at the central club
bury, an evening was held dedicated to
to the proletarian poet Samobytnik. }
„ Voronezh. Ribochiya o club. transferred to
management of the District Sovparkhoz, making it non-
accessible to workers, ‹ due to high
prices, It was decided to transfer it to the jurisdiction
workers. *

„Livny For the last month, life has been in ra-
The club has become noticeably stronger. We talked about
him, as about one of the. your skinny ones;
now it is “overcrowded. beyond measure", Going
lively and active work, Chaoto
organizing lectures and concerts that
enjoy great success at the club

^‚
G I

in:

reading room open | at
"Litetsk. In the workers' club of the Council of Profes-

of the Union of Nations there are dances and nothing,

more. ‚ }

Tsoritsym. Vpubiza section. Prolelnulta
opens the central exemplary one. vlub
in the second working canteen, | } ..

Club (Rice Army soldiers with kafbas)
Prolezkul. |

ly Life flows in workers' clubs
vyapo. m in danger of being turned into
teas." Local. Prodetvultom. tsodiyat
Monroe 06 reorganization center, Held

opening of the club "Young Proletarian".
irek. Expected to be open working

club ,

„ Samari. A club named after Seals has been opened

Gorky,

Meetings and conferences.
Aletsevka, Voronezh, First of July.
there was a City Conference ‚Pro-
letkult. E
Bolshoi-Dvinsk, Resolution at the Congress of the Profession
Soyulov recognizes spontaneous
create a Prodetkult that unites the cultural
turno - educational active, about “everyone”
Professional Union, E el
Kisw. On June 39th the Citywide
spay' Working Conference on issues
culturally - the enlightenment of latent activity.

New Congress of Unions
Youth in Tula, Voromezh’, Ivanolo-Vozne-
Sensk, Gomel and Smolensk. ^in
Tula. New Congress of the Communist Youth
the children found out that the work was in place
things are not going well, there are few active workers,

centralized, ‘no environment. “whydae$x
urine before-

Held Guber

Ivanovo-Voznesensk. On 'riding Mono'
treasures, 6 places say oh otetetviya
No. 11-12

workers, facilities, premises, leasing
ry,

\'
Proletarian and folk theaters.
Kirsanov. According to the resolution of the unification
a little cultural-educational meeting
organizations "Karl Marx" theater
decided to be under the jurisdiction of Proletkult, Prolel-
zero, working together © Agitirosvet
and “Department of Education and Science, it will be free

It is not possible to stage performances for the Red Army soldiers

‘less than twice a trip. Regardless
It’s Proletkult that will open its drama studios
technical, musical and others, in which
many Red Army soldiers will be trained,

"Ruli. Staging performances and games
summer theaters of Proletkult leaves ho-
Roshgee vichatlenie.

‘Village Otary “Leski” (Tula city). Was
dralga “VUnemployed, connected” was installed
given a short lecture, the Theater was ‘hier-
nolnen. The Ezrigels were very upset,
Having learned that the ‘circle’ has neither plays nor
makeup, no scenery, why is it difficult
Povigorir opetegyanl, It would be advisable
It is better to create a supply organization,
at least ‘through Proletvult, since such
teruaeiig will be conductors of light in
"earthly embers of the Rujo village.

Shuya "Artists of the Workers' Club "Proleta-

ri“ og after plays, ;, Kasvgka/ A. 'Gol-.

"Togo. They played amazingly artistically.

Imprisoned by the organization of the corpses of people
champions of dramatic art and pro-
letharnaia.

Balaliov goes well and cheerfully
Worker's Park. You can see a lot of love and 2a-
bot ‘said to him by the workers.
Among the masses, he enjoys great success.

Voronezh: Opened. garden with scene ''Work-
Whose Chemist? Union"Chemical workers
The industry has evaporated ‘almost all of its own’
means to put gardens in order,
arrange a “good scene; in a word, stage
it’s like that; so that workers can sleep
hell to rest and study. at

Kazan. Workers of the State ‘Suez-
Rino-soap plant No. To iishut
to the artists of Vodiogo Traneport:. "You are one of us"
sensed game and successful battle
new play in stage and moral
‘in vostitaralny meaning not ‘only Dobta-
vi ‘us ‘aesthetic pleasure, mo’ and
and in many people there is a sincere desire
to serve the stage without any reservations,
Lin about and volvo to another proletarian
honor/ You showed results.” zach
workers can use their gate.
oviy daily rest for the service of the priest-
school and society." ' 4

In the textre shoelv opehtanlya byta tostavle-
in living ‘varugita! „Groletarians of all countries,
unite,” She received a standing ovation
and a “revolutionary upsurge” among the audience. Myo-
some bare their heads. |

'Kyiv. Department of Stage Education
paradise worked on a project for forward workers and
children's theaters. |

Kharkov. Free euphonies have started
ical concerts” ‘for ‘workers and
‘mentsev 1 `Soviet’ orneetgra from Ukraine.

33

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

63

Samara. In the prisoners of war club there was a
the tragedy of Polivanov, Proletary.
To the working artists the role of the proletarian
of the Chinese world were like; on the shoulder. Ienol-
the performance of the play was brilliant, Coming
just mark ‘success and ‘further’
to the Workers' Theater and to the Workers
Art. y'all

Orsha. „After a long pernod lancelet

‘and give birth to art in a talented

etanonke ieeey “Sinful father-in-law” ‘were
the growths of true hypocrisy are barely perceptible,
A well-known style and feeling were observed
complained about the penetration of the artists and
the most active connection between performers
and Arites"

Vesyegonsk, (Tverskoy). „In the House of the People
jelly road workers were constantly
The play 'The Great Last Night' was released. Wear
prtisgov impeccably. They tried their best
and performed the play with soul, Ubranetvoand by
exemplary fryadok as always, stazyai ‘epek-
takla workers“, have

„In the village of Verkhnee ‘nepolno’ a man
youth without prior training
they staged a decoration out of rugs in the area
and played a comedy, having composed it themselves ‘from
seen once and somewhere in the city. Ova-
It was headed by “Fedya” VBediy. The effect was half

"For the second performance" people have already gathered

in 'several villages',

Oslo Porečje. (Rovtoveny district), Groupi
peasants' children from 9 to 12 years old
announced her desire to play a play.
Rehearsals are currently underway

Borovichi. ‘Siectaml, won by grutita
Proletkult actors passed. horotio.

Proletarian studios.

Tver. Music Department TERolelzuztinya
horbnyuo' developed"evom'work. I have 2 ho-
moat studios, two’ studios fortonnanyaon
games, te chachu ‘solo singing’ studio.

‹/Schatze. Troletkult opened studios? whether
ratural, musical-choral x non-enol-
kimi branches, dramigicheekuyu, Ivobra-
compelling excuses. Supposed to originate
choreographic studio.

Balaiov. Working in a drama studio
under the Workers' Club is developing successfully.
Studio of fine arts on diyah
tears off the decorative masterwork, which has
aiming at enabinig ‘district lusilel-
TV mugs decorations. Oztkuynaeteya

IT iri Work Club student
Diya zhizotisi works very successfully. Mio
Gym, those who want to work, have to
dig out in a cramped space:

'Moetva. Workers of bakery No. 1 or No.-

they lowered the dramatic spring, ‘zozhory:

works very well. Performances are taking place
e usiekh, |
et. Breeding Department Narolny ©)0-
razonamia of the opening at Proletkulka in eda-
Research Institute of the Proletarian Palace Studio:
rocking, theatrical and choral. ^
Voronezh.” Spraying the Community Club
opens a theater-studio, the number of studios
prices are accepted by members of the R.K.P.` and workers
fiber and

muses-

Vavodon. The goal of the studio students is that
-

`64

olvoval I identify the passage of the heart and insus-
by creating a cadre of new theatrical
masters from the workers, without tearing them away
them from their usual work.|

Vyatka. At the railway station
Proletarskaya Musical opens
Ikola m courses of systematic lectures about
gave music to the people.

Kyiv. In early June on the outskirts of the city
working studios are being consumed to prepare
scenes of figures from the working environment.

Rybinsk. At the Proletarian University Club
otkryzvotsa drama studio website.

“The same as Sri Vitebsk Iroletarok Uni-
university,

'Proletarian universities and courses.

Vitebsk. Proletarian University
Iryt, November 15, 1918 as part of 2 fa-
nultets: physical-mathematical and gumma-
nitarmic sciences. Due to inability
listeners to self-determine, functional
worked as part of one general educational
nogo. Number of listeners—512, of which 194—
members of professional associations (chap., vol.
commercial and industrial union and employees' union).
For. the past academic year most
lectures given on the history of literature,
history of socialism and the labor question,
less in terms of iolitic economy, with
The university has a physical office,
chemical laboratory and library.
Number of students for the academic year
not only not. sorry, but... has increased. Method
work on seminaries gave good results
tats. Next year it is expected from
cover the general education department and fa-
stumps:. political - economic, ob-
social-historical, physical-mathematical
Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Assumed
organize lectures outside the university walls
in factories and factories, in barracks, etc.
It has been decided that there will be no classes at the university in the summer.
stop, but lead them in other forms)
okskureshi, occasional lectures, courses,
concerts, students and seminar works.
and a club is opening on the site..

ha. Proletarian University co-
consists of seven departments: the literacy school,
general educational and 65 special:
social sciences, naturally - history
technical, technical department, department
fine arts and drama
art. Number of students: 548 people,
mostly workers. On natural
department, no practical work was carried out
due to lack of laboratorythorium and sottetet-
warring offices, because
enough strength, they were set seriously.
The shortage of lecturers is especially acute
on the last 2 departments. Disadvantage
funds, premises and other circumstances
slowed down the activities of the university,
despite this, the first half of the year gave,
good results, the University calls
keen interest among workers. 500 che-
“Forever we urgently require
=> continuation of classes in the summer semester.

Tver Agitirosvet organized red-

o'armey courses. When courses open
Itevili aimed to create a class

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 11-12

revolutionary fighter. But listen to the composition...
leu turned out to be higher than expected in

thought of iolithic development and general

preparation. Therefore, it was decided to prepare

of which are political workers for Kras-.
no army. Work on the courses proceeds from

with a big rise, busy. maintained in the form

conversations-lectures, Or and the whole production
work seeks: 1) to direct the thoughts of the student

running along a certain channel; 2) give

him methods and methods for understanding phenomena

life; 8) without filling up with a heap of ananas. and

without imposing them. Duration of the course

ow-month, They are supposed to move on

to long-term courses, from which then

the Higher Proletarian School is created,

Bezhetsk The Council opened the People's
University, Unprepared listeners,
lei and other reasons slowed down the development
ity of the university, and it was closed, Instead
his Department of Public Education is attached to
got ready for the opening of the Proletvreky University
site, ‹

‚ Kharkov. In the house of the proletarian nulgura
Nureys with natural science departments were opened
sciences, professional education,
drama studio, music studio,
class of folk instruments. Scheduled to
opening courses in public law
ical and literary-historical. When-
members of professional unions.

Alekseevka. (Voronezhenoy city). When the people
Nom University opens an evening school
for adults, it is kept in good condition
free donations from professional
unions. The influx of students is enormousy. Pain-
Shinetvo-workers and Soviet employees:

oh, (Kurekoy g.). Newly opened
the university is a school
‚elevated type, Predominantly
the way the youth fly by is celebrated
successful composition of lentorov.

Minsk. At the People's University about
500 listeners, series of lectures not Jewish
in English language.

Nizhny - Novgorod. Opens June 80
Workers' Polytechnic. 40 people registered
century .

Samara. The question of the Worker's Poly-

technical school ”

etc. (Samara province). It took place.
grand opening of the proletarian
university.

Kineshma. At the factory on Tomna they organized
A number of technical popular lectures were called.

Kirsanov. At the Proletarian University
listeners are listed as BM. Attendance
much lower. Currently classes
discontinued.

Orsha. There are topics in Proletarsky Uuizeroy
lectures for the week: 1) Vsevolod Garshin,
3} Astronomical observations, 8) Egoism,
altruism and scientific-psychological theo-

understanding the motives of behavior of living beings,
ъ Tuberculea is a popular disease, 5) New
and justice in the history of literature. 6) Origin
riya of technology, 7) Creativity of Vahagi 8) I6to-
riya of the earth.

`"Livny. The university is open, but
there are no bodies. There is almost no work. ve
degeya.

diya, Vibiotena willingly ‹
Life is hydrated in the first’ Iron-
those 'Commune, Otk to gender 'gramo-
you, music studio, library club.
Factory" Prokhorovskaya manufactory.
Cultural and educational stupidity
Drabrike is led by: factory committee
‘veg, District Sonden, Communist Cells,
“A year’s work did not yield any results.”
tatov. (club not’ soup,’ reading room
‘you have lectures, interviews,
newspapers mb drinking, fighting” ‘6 homeless
can’t, the library can’t, but’ the best
It would be better to burn such a thing, Cultural-pro-
the lighting department deals with everything
anything, just not what oh donzhem
“ev Vy Ufa (800
abrika Znamenskoy manufactory
business) Orders from the factories from the bena,
peaceful masses in ry toya sv-
we are making a fuss: cola’ Diya
the sprouts wither, the teutr ‘and knocks,
svudaretvenny sugars) AI ‘(1000
workers), cultural and educational 'work-
TV has almost stopped, there is a small
library, but no one is interested in it.
At the meeting of the Council’t essio-
of the Unions do not indicate complete reporting
knowledge of the work of the school department from
trade unions and proletarian
wt. Zhenya ‘university and irofession-
national schools 'created 663 smallest

digs fessonal 'unions, Work
both urn-lighting commissions at
fairies "no results"

does not give tags. At the Proletarian University
Auntie will create professional workshops
also without the participation of professional associations
call Assumed under the Council 'Professio-
burning Unions brgaiaovyt 60867’ by
out-of-school education from pre-detasite-
lei of the Proletarian University, Board

And Agitirosvet, cultural-
lighting commissions’ at “professional
nal sbuz ‘and so on, heh

reys in charge of the cause of education,
Gomel. On the fiber of the 'union I'm-
kN sculpture doc: r ytn
along with the national zones
Ri evil and support the existing
growing centers of proletarian culture,

Proletarian Culture, No. 11-12,

AF

. Khovoy and Great Russian.

No. 77 212 'PROLETARY CULTURE. "85
Paradise on how I oe And ryh sets,
‚ Cult it is oirois fam i i e pbmotry in laying down,
abrichio of factory committees, ‘professor- s dn arena 51} Zerotyayu
nie travels to the Russian Federation and workers in Va. ue in Ibpobbbit "vv to ‚*--

: = mi and y ". . vym rum" sideways and o. ‘in

va. those\r mighty about `organizations“
finalyy a: and y in NY “. about locality
type 'commission' Before. r loho = ami ri" chaos, Kul turmo.
Nalaieetta, Workers about rye, educational ov nothing ‘you are not

n card game Ibre and drinking Vykha advanced

& ‘povvya ‘KOmibeša, which is in’ during Bryanek. Na’ Bibischanai `Profevemo- Council
we they changed from the ancient bibli- blic Unions 2 dreamed that’ ‘separation’
current and nyalvs for ye ‘conc r - ie o mute svbtitelnaya. howl
more than their workers” in nykh, was reduced to zero, even
The dacha was transferred to the Zovalye backwaters: we are from them, for example, among the metalworkers.
t is openLiteracy school for V3 Department Nero? wow Education and nothing
‘lifespan changed sharply, 6 did, ‘voledochvie of ties with
She, in whole streams, poured out and rose from her and became angry.
shikoyu. amotnoeti". Youth creates a child, which is a
with your own life, enrolling in various studies, culturally, and enlightening the green work

among the proletariat is 00’ united
fishery Posted by bozdalf mii
< conference.

things have been getting better lately"
turno + prosnetilelnaya about profeseo-
nal union of Rigo-Oryaovsvoy settlement.
They raise questions about the unity of the nulgurno-

rya work of yy unions

one

Ku: sk. The most lively and fruitful
on. work in the matter of infiltrators and’ military
TVNIA › railway › ‘proletariat.
Has the wind Erivethr, obliirivya”_bi-
btmotena, your twa.

In short. (Kursk in). OSBletom Profesoto-
nal Unions are organized’ in general
Exclusive evening courses for workers,
where lectures are given ‘on political ‘eco-
nomies, memories ogrononies and
‘natural science

Kurek; 'Ozi yy kurey giving preparation
skilled workers in factories
and factories. —

Cultural and educational work from
business under Gubirofeovet is going poorly. Strongly
influences" the inertia of the members of the department, these
They don’t even show up to meetings.

Samara. Irofesvmonal about the union. me-
theaters and clubs opened for railway workers
at some Xx stations. In the musical
igzole’ 250 people stay overnight,

Orchestras formed: string, du-
traveling theater-
The carriage is being driven away these days by search and ma
front The club library has 7,000
volumes nnig, kanyu ist, iron-
road vures.”

ri 6union of water transport workers
arose about, lovers of painting and
risona

Elets. "3-9. June layered opening
garden and professional thermal baths. union
tabachnikov. A lot of people gathered
business:

ika Zvusvilova, Priest pleinr to ‘or-
gemedsia reading room, which will be open
to be ia' fo. whose time and

break. .
r UV: management of the printers' union

manages the garden at the ‘toetinitsa’ “Fuclcia”,
B withthere will be a club functioning in the village,
B
We are the studio, we will be our own
Orel. performed, festivities, oso
?800114 A ny
yeah, commissions with ke ‹vodiogo dispute-
NTV, ryavivvetsya, new
certs n be and ‘ivrokhodah.,
this one

an; 4 And from-
her less re Unions, 0
OBRYA ©AD and Ryfochi and EEiono

those to unite all lecturers, forces
and put on their mod, nAiniraya ‘profenovo-

whining, unions,
‚ ‚Niokniy-Noveoroi, ovzorod. Qi `‘meeted ‚nultur-
‘but educational commissions, factory

nominees and and Unions of olo-

“Dezhi” is decided. ыы 9
"lighting work. Arce-
cash, create a general one, yy yy no.
technical courses, dezonium-oad and iloshchad-

ku rim: Diya, ozgramoznykh,. eng oino
- and the city of fofooooonniy _ Union

open the reading room,

Astragan. Ementon. information about at work

students of the Art Studio, pr. ©9-
we rofesem yniykh, Soyuzov li
‚Vraeny ‚Yar (Astrikhamskaya district). V. city

10 professional organizations are being washed.
Not a single one of them has cultural
Polnal" work is not carried out. 9
‚„Ivshnovo > Volnesenek. Factory, Gryaznova.
Kulnurnochirosvolichelnaya ribs begins
nalodeiliulsya, (uvekryly menoliu. Read
lectures about oh melon -
cheskaya ‚m. 1$ is very reasonable. . "I
Vitebsk, Rab, in the union of herfanotevi che-
somewhat sluggishly. Ozithril, mitonrymrosy oh,
but they are poorly attended. g |
Tver, Kuturnoliros transport work
n Verkhnevolzhek region. underway, evo"
ry 'Ib^Za "Zhe. An strength. and oredtv"
hyYa ki vazod About the workers.
rn urgent need for cultural
‘educational work’ among. ‘macoconscious-
telnlich. system, workers - in Alrvo |
enekife.› posad. (Vlad 1ub.)
Far rika' Zyudaima" So'etoroliy board of va-
'dream, persecution of 'Soyuya, rim, we a-
Nizalors of the Union were dismissed, p.
"Kharkov, Sh in the waters and the searched for love:
tour-proemetemelnoy rabora neo vetoya.
`Communist! cell kitty in iisya from
q in theirs” from th; get some
| } p just 1&
In In Propheus, “Solovo”, Nbbaimikov.
d: oh work tone-
there is no need to rip. Recently: > Va
kpub: churns and dies

Union of Communist E" Lodge. ›/Shenza., Obravovaleya ‘spring! ‘young people
"ore". Lice are very likely to get into it
stagers, working class, Youngorgeni-
the nation is experiencing a lot of congestion due to
lack of environment and premises, but still
she is growing, although slowly. "Week" cool
current ‘staged performances “Ma Abrique Serle-
Eva, “The overall impression is excellent, Mot
ie "opentacle" protruding non-virginly - ie
call" strings I 'balvidvirng

chanomi | y" C

IROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. M in?

Narovch t (Penza city). The Union is organized
sign in virod: Mopodey ‘arrived anergihivo
8 pre yy KHIIZCHONAE-ONR

y V g.) Inatsivagyurom, goria-
tions ==. yy was the chairman

mn rn that In the beginning of the century. Fdyuse
on, Thanks,
The number is also logical. Ah, re o
I
o
Wow.  overweight. ra:

eg Sy‚ Dieter

they
bo ri U. r. giving. further. ra-

uno
gurs,, neg. force OFrga-

gods. But “I’m tempted to refuse permission to let them in.”
by other means,

esegonoi with request-
° Veshevonok (Tverskoy city). In life. hommu-

‚pisticheskogo (\union of frost is noted
‘great surprise. Cruises are organized:
nym paporurim natural
auk, musical-vonal newspaper, nie-
Oui. Leo

oo (

'Verskaya city), Movizhat 9 t and
0.25 children, whole, vetulica in,.R
eo titration. youth to, about
Self-educational. work and sleep
touch on current events. and
A: yourself. as fighters and creators of new
circles are organized: socially -
lithical, natural Izh lizorv-
tour, musical-voval and performed
in order. rich, library, mi wow ©tso-
help attract members to. ha rav-
smart entertainment; club, games, razlo-
lightning and% otylom dozduhe futbod,, rakhi,
uz, sports ground, ‹
‘youth commune, organized, working
‘whose no. No. Tver, begins, it

connections between the hedgehog and the breed.. oh.
Tolyutsi ( shtobo heat ‚ Kommushi-
slick! mododezki, St. is reinforced-

nym tempem. Successfully conducts his work
Peterturio-dramatic ‚spring of ‚sweat
inferior to oneself, the goal of dabbling with ‘money-
neck, literature.  Disputes are arranged
on Ve political ‚momenkh, ‚Union
cultural and educational environment.tion, enjoys popularity and.
Roalation of ZOROLA and about ANA, to it
eti yin. , .

union spread $ {o `deed-
activity, throughout the entire vein
bring famous people, “woo to circle-
kah and unions of ry and youth, Soak-
Xia weak state. women are all quiet
organizations.,

1 M
onronokoy podowa, population osiobia-
si 9 huge. piporeom, “Jo” howling. pochima-
we are more literate

re-enabled by listeners and A, ©.
out, p, from, a zi
She's about 6, ru k '+ kt
poi roshezhenaya g.), (Union pod
from a month ago. Izh you count
oo members. He leads an energetic cultural

but rhodotilodanukh, work and uses-

Xia. sympathies mnt V
Comrade They are building rallies, which is about
Went © with great success, Dremshichevka
everything is organized for trips

M p y g UenI
No. 1-19

in the village. At the union. There is a choir of about 50 people.
Musical section. started to develop
nyu orchestra. The ribot in oseucation has begun
fine arts

Aletsvevka, (Voronezh city)› Orgalivoven

communist youth union. Voro-.
Nezh province is preparing for the commune tour

nistic youth. Working in the 'tree
Mazo is successful. Young people are incredulous
rushes towards Soyul,
Ilenskaya), the Union consists mainly
vom from the most German climbed a-
“Brightly revolutionary character
and, in my short time,
nie, managed to sing well in,
„Bergam. oonrnosny city) @Union Organi"
was called in December 1918. Brake operation
ziteya due to absence
Governors took place
stichesvoy. youth in Nizhny, Nontorod..
It turned out that there was a weak ‘orchestration of work on’
places. There is no club, there is no agitation,
rallies are not organized.
Kamavino ` SR dy p.).
organization | was considered recently
the strongest in Wu Ig now in singing work
ta temi viya we wear our robe"
. |

Local

lm

research institute
Kamova, and ry ry im

Poems. Publisher: eturs zradekogo.. Pro-

letpulta. 1919 64 pages, and Er 75 and,

Collection. the quiet begins when
knowledge that modern poets. nom
riata is only still ‘the forerunner of those proyetar-
Russian poets have something new to say
word and say nothing to the leaders,

Don't talk live prizes. th
To me the words of a proud “poet”! her
We are the first breath of joy;
We are the first greenery to come!”
Ravrushiv: black windows, i) |1
We long to be intoxicated with the world. |
We don’t know the sun yet,
To make a noise at the top of the proud,

hon.
This is what Samoznik writes, › of which
ovens to dress This is the first time

Let it be. this.
laziness, grows”, but this is the flowering of “ovori o”
glu

video © highlighting me among the others
with its lyricism, Zoduzzhno eRyu, problota
and deep bakery: The author is not. tey
sound of beautiful, noisy spruce trees, ^ s
often turn into ‘puvlyv’. besbodvrzha-
body shouts; he doesn't like it -

the singer's productive role or suffering: working

what class go zobedonovnago, triumphant-
but a joyful feast dogio. „revolution.

Originalist stotst pero 0, sun Kiya
with his ‘translations and: he is
styy, vomne t, us ivo om k
for the future, with ‘vvoimi ri ii
Ides

quiet from m. yy hi `cerioda:
39yu-194 and ovchiK

35

FLYING CULTURE! \

of the premises, .
‘S?ezd ° Communi-.

o Ch Vi @og rafi chi

com poetic talent of the author, |

randomly or otherwise. agreed. . V. factory
factory cells work. everything is in order.
on. This is explained in part by leaving. actin-
nykh to the front and the main one to return

som from “{" \ which would unite
Neil ge. 2 tu
rivers, those volume recognized fm
E mouth ‚ to the organization r
many sessional C
Tamafrovka, oh g). Org ‚>I
circle of Commune Esco I, II":

om "omumdoiichesibI young-
Reading room,
Yaloya Provincial Congress of Kommersant.’com

Saratov. Guberetius will come true
Unions of Youth

Kyiv, June. Veoonrazhiskiy is convened

in the Youth Unions. E
5% Buoy speech d) Orgmizoveley Union

Suitable for her Youth Communication
in Orel

The Provincial Congress is convened" Communi-
stic boundaries” in Valuev gri

Kremenschuye. The slave is celebrated in Popluvation
very much among the fishing youth,

OE: 5 l r 9: m Tea in:

Sounding out about the fight. about your MI
capial, and feeling better” but enough
Crescent solidarity, m ‹organi-

tion Ts y4ti, poet immediately

meh. and zy her about.

but ‚ZHI and, ovorye 2 mo 66 er ed.,
“Nao was brought back to normal, not her

In soft Tel g tan

(1 person. first ' ANI railway
Usnahmu = a m
There are a lot of them in Romeli. g

We are path-followed: % At the stream." and to

Servantsinavih ›. ‚ Mupotvuet. ‘two, +
connection with the revolution, 1905 met"
rays of the sun" p. anxious?
ota strength grows in his di. ‚= report
lino 608vabt, ‘that fight the bottom’ and notre-
bueg meovo og y rem ‚barichiozhet, not
times) p

runes of the urtal drogiuli. rtridlantsy"
and nyo ry ml 2
|. Poiany diets
but he is stubborn and “unfed”
difficult minutes are not orlozhev
ns

Vulsayaya, 1905 special 2. b

vdobtnom upholstery, b A

4$

new
"yay
and

'bykh

‘ HOSTED
With the ear of the kaforgi, . ry shyryi, dis-
arrows, gallows, punitive, squads,
however, don’t worry, you and mine
“But you resist the struggle, stubbornly,”: from,
without the smell. wow, you t,
responsibly stu deletes $ ept 29-0

B*

at
We rowers "r rinya k

-Y besstralino, in your own. from ov
Let's foam the waves, › And
Feel free to go ahead, ladies
about 10918 and the eye of Java” tea: “nore
having arrived, “Vayaz, the city of fragrant greenery,” ‘she. s"

nada-to’” 81000} rubbed it into noah’ `fa-
briquet * shackled ry y ‘p me
labor or field For e ©

neither NYa and ry PI m NINY t

“fire m ‘smoking burns’.”

But he was not at a loss. He's A
"the embarrassment of the menacing-breathing ones, oh | Gima
Dah gloomy, EAN, gotyoichi
be friendly

„I podeaushaya nlich prianyiy
New design of blacksmiths, ›
Instead of a mournful song. }

The brave song of the fighters and a and e

tells the Original, And in it. tea
close

Everyone. day, evenings, |
A wonderful world is blooming, 1.
life’ bright temple oooh. \

In your “bad” closet the poet finds
consolation and joy in captivating books
gah, but he reads gah not for idle time
escorts to boredom rivers

to comprehend the “t of proletarian” | RZ
if only this morning -
friends, ›„
And the prone ones are wounded
Poliy pumilirov, oshsiyko: ani
her wonderful - about summer dreams" has long been
lightning beckons to a e morta, and, you 4
Say goodbye to your comrades, let's pour! `voodoo-
movements and Norma, their advice is ‘ready to go’.

We are tired of the ‘wild’ shore, |
Faith" long bitter thoughts; 4 and
Chvek plaintive she KE,
Reeds pe’t AI
You are forever dead

you 'sea every 'hour, ^*` 3
$imaioAnitnye ‘cliffs, ‚#4
No. “Cho ring” edazinli beginning

“And tomorrow, itchy” -vee, mapit and “mwatok.”
“He stands in” laurel waters, ^^

at

_ Always in the sunshine, FOR

"O 'tumanahoi nevagodahi city,
He had never heard
“I’ll cover it with a colored cover!”

but fesno odizii ‹laelieyu poo |

Along the edges with a crimson wreath

Eternal roses have lit up,
And under the sun's veil it goes
There, among the melk? color,

‚ I was amazed. triple bulk. ut
A wonderful temple up to the clouds. . s
All sparkling, every frost;
Bright life free temple,

^.| And ireod' nim smokey 6 !

The sacred fimnam... ^^

Oh

m ‚RAkre

I: uzmramorivo, ejodi and EM or

l, ^Vlet ik ykh N

ai
o

Wolof words: izh
upotonaZae LAD"

PROLETARIAN. B5ULTURA.

it mind)

’ „Harvest“. Proletarmal, - despite

y m en

Hugo

No. 11-19

`In the struggle wa this “wonderful island” pov
the death of the power of the evildoers, who will have to
overcome many obstacles before
they will achieve their desired goal; ‘shore, sis ooogo

“Fashionable”, the port, however, does not draw
as it often happens, heroic heroism"
giant; not the same: doubts
and. meudat. oh Remembering
E VUI 566 yes ‘Water, °

Their wretched marks

Enem all

‹ cancer we $
y and :U And you
t = loy in mighty runes. and
T'kov. Fodriry ‚zdurazhkd, vanain rozy py
noah* “There is no convenience in giving to a self-sufficient person”
its unearthly! forces, because’ he’ 602’
knows that. will is the essence of creativity in a new life
Taitol, V. free labor; And if: now,
in forced labor, “a rough piece: century-›

metal art ovichaotsya evo
hand*, although in its brilliance. and:

foggy us
winter sighs, t,
And the sweat falls like rain on me -

comrade frkuzhio, on the island of the wonderful#u’prodo =
Tarpi "united thunder of conquered machines"
will create for us “flowers of new life” and happiness
oomachu „cherished ter
TV-itsi from 1910 to 1914 has sunk
(8 > >44 “Spring”, “Spring
songs" disturbs the poet's chest,

and ry TT
and “The work is teeming 0)
r u v o n y KA x pu A
| - in the heart there is a wonderful song... of peace
No. teach I and Vienna Zo o Reno in
but I hammer p
*^ yes, 4 U and
ros ie t 19,olodo
In vo | goes m'
And the poet, Fashionable A. peshenoy of Phila,
veluh boldly dreams:
“Oh, weed!” I'm dilapidated congestion -.

window to 'rasiakhnu! ^
Podbayu'6606 slave spaces,

I will waive with my heart the free “spring”,
The poet lived not only until spring, but also

oh pc

lady
hh

th

up to

attacks against the world war
collects fruits left th torments y a
and give birth to chuck ›!

ro "It's time to see", Thinking 1 `codes
in UZasylvy Eva, stenNV, 1 misochll
in Moščudioŭ ‘pove Hrošpodáki
zoryi vidgiye, semphsha,.., oor stva,
“Already pressed in Zollh me; “Rdzno 1 you
ha Indefatigable zhennyg “^ from Vaughn”
SI © secret ‘joy’ bi vbi store
__ Koloeven prelme zvennyh: ROO

m8")
Among the formidable. storms I'm a self-deceiver
swear, howl VA to you,

schu, rn, says; and "y! and #n

„>

Nok go chobblemnun sni ovra in
vr bynol what ii: o m A
_ The world is still in the smoke of “fires,”” 8
L 184-19

And the deadlines have already passed.”

tsu frost ket, femoral gaze"

u na uuu mo us iya btv

ovm orvi otodetie t; volumes
No. | ‘dying, I believe,

In the death of labor and ho. kv
lo Hejerair: more, ponoto: 0 low
’ In the formidable name of Ponara OJSC

‚ Flying help will strike | ‚4%

65 total “ball” oo si. |

In poetry” Self-existence brightly’ vn

"abon love for nature,

on an autumn morning, it's in fashion. on ZAZBD,

"And Vlruna is scared. The lilac is trembling,
The lilac towns are full of eyes,
o oietyuya "cuts from the linty tires“,

0" 'Zvode pi' is dreaming. ‚im on p. gi
AA by
lady ‚bru E oklon, we "G bvyy"
'Sparkled` oh Am
ilgu | near me." <, O.

"Go with Ruvon s; he is watching, <
[in m"
"On fresh sand and a bench"
‚. The shadow cast the nets over them 51:
make a face! ugly faces Zy
& gloomy bischne. cathedral“...
“And the poem’ is not ‘Nun’ you or ‘either-
Von gramdioznyh party” prorody, Yura
sofu ve he’chunetvoet poveod Zonrug himself:
„py que chrut interstitial groove“) where’ y7to-
Ropatea ‘etruiki’ live” in greenery, what’s up”
light sea lpumi nid ‘road arch about
in eel. at the newbie factory, they remember:
#6 “oh” gone” 0% peaceful No.
river Choyaenm ‘og
'In nature' por" finds 'and' images: yes
expressions of their mature. ‘thoughts; Ob'
this says the most “equivalent!” ‘©bor-
Nicky departments, motor ‘ozarlavlenykh
“Zariitsy rn yeeni”, “Pvesig tru-
yes", At 'dawn', 'Towards the eternal!
'Here a girl dies in a distant donkey:
and 109% healthy” ©е7’6 re: very good
Cabbage soup with cabbage soup. ^^

'Aries Blizzard E:

and

North; distant is cruel in you
Snenom, ro I was a horny one
‹Red flower“,,.

It’s possible to be ‘dtoi’ and fight for the prize
to the family Ob'obnyavnii p cho, that" in the" Obornik no
poems, dedication to Niya Roetens
go odu." t 8)

)traversing\ many aspects of life and riin”

again and again, ^po9 always’ this
at the height of But: the non-lekiivistic ideal.

His’ “and” or “is poured on the hedgehogs”

by hand”, or “© by Tslovtsy”, “whose wow
„inspirational wicked breasts
zamkglie', Or, finally, his' and", wako

brightly sharpening, derletya\starry, sky.
„We are Unevdy #vuhrake tech
Yudva mertzivui uu mdf
But at the post of “every high” No.
We’ Zezimenno oli

Votrechet AT tsa Zavo b policha, iv
nem om vadshu” auk, dduboky. commumpot, no

ROL TARSKAYA. CULTURE

69.

competitor, but a new, comrade” He me ©0-
knowledgeable, he can still do it. change 'in the fight,
with casital, but, the poet mistletoe declares about aa

and. *- tuhit steel hub“ 1“
And vschb’ aveno’ vilelooo, ti och
y ‚doubtful and nlotney“. | b you ark

winter, Samobyznika not, ‘original, fuck,
times. e0monotonous. and already. used.
in the past, they’ feel. and. special
musicality, although the poet knows how to find
Diya amyrazheniya, svomkhchuvetv rome
If there is imitation, Who, nvirimer, does not "
will remember Nadeon, reading the strictures

Zhezitsina, ‘my friend, ^60” mov ©
t movements,
g; sharing my dreams, ©.)
Just a lot of struggle. wallpaper

{? dew we measure the price. CMO

‹ri No. 2% No.
“Everything will give ‘opportunity.’ and
another. Let's say that this is not true.
ports, still live on, account. ‘legacies 2! at
logo, y Fami, iv. only, not created by anything
new, tso. fairy of massacre Ian `I
master the poetic form, Im zy from Bil
winter dfuryih himself. poet: ^.
r. vto’ ovioaetsyasnyi + vit"
and high ‘creation of r mercury
‚ai‚nevni’ harsh language oo
to comprehend the cherished feeling. 9}
only the one who tears and oppresses <
“Let’s keep it in our heart”
In our ‘timid hints, sing! Ra
I. longing, and impulse and calls, zool
O I›tu‘eilu, who are in the mountains: uchr Sher
“Kvozvtonov rvezled furiously in her.”
-›M that song; that a freeman about.
from the dawn of free life. to her

y tnikyo WE goricho re
EE and: E
response : : $9 no
but I am not

‘s p © has a lot of pain. g

ze those
-. it toli, ma, S A, h
cultural burials
About measures and

oitimilma,,

K. Lo north." Racial 2
, ai ry and s
what's wrong with her! o
Va y zi
that 8 m i t o e m g
distinguishing him from the environment of the Tara p
z sateley u, abon I sor Ni
and and Not THEM "I am a person, etc. m 4
No. inte this and about me -
him Other tasks: 06” new
yes? purl, says Ri: - e l0-

same 606 her
u ban
and not E ot,
C

r ie,
sound ' 5} r t i,
a
70.

Loves Loptin” was written off. “spring and not `sa-
my early one; ‘in’ when ‘they’re already screwing up Nabu’
to eat the kidneys, All the actions of the stories take place
go in the spring. IM mesna of the mouth, special, my own,
Poptinskaya-radoslial, caressing and always
a little PO Ma'ale IDF tier-
cash, Greenery that seemed bright warm-
on days, covered with porotia; the sun is golden
like this ‘greenery,’ but only a little, it’s spicy
four behind a layered whitening veil; heat-
fresh spring air is a must! loses”
its strength ‘under the pressure of the cold wind, and
swollen, the kidneys are waiting; when they can
will unfold ‘its tender leaves, eh’
afraid to suffer from the cold. And it's always like that

somehow, half.

“Across the meadow” Irzhanov’s carriage puts it
a faintly outlined shadow on the greenery, slightly
turning golden ‘from the sun hidden behind
layered white veil, completely covered
the sky has melted, the breeze flows across it,
wraps around the spring NY "And ‘everywhere in
in the distance - forests, bare, colorful
with gray and brown grids of vertices.
Something meek, real, bleak
looks” from the meadows, and the forest, and the fields and the fields
e" soul and the feeling of imminent blossoming.
Is it ready? one ‘only warm’
sunny. day, and everything will be different here,
everything will bloom, everything will turn green,. give you something to drink
the aroma of the air is spring, and the air is cold
in the active air there are subtle smells of earth; touch the throne
that plow, ‘and something else from the swamp.’ So
Luptin describes spring in a different way, “In darkness,”

“And a meek ‘something, Atrelian, ‘modestly-
faded”, which “looks from the meadows, and forests, and
fields and feeds the soul with a foreboding
rogo'rascietv", all this is comprised of loitin-
civil engineering; The author is entirely in his power.
° It is everywhere, both in the descriptions of nature and in ral-

in the dialects of the characters,
1st now "Merey 4 howl is seething, and
It's humid and wet and eats its own, 16-
her E in that m I zo",
. „Ah, 6 playing sloppiness
6 aaa pearls reflected in it
and kk, standing” about $
‚° its o yy

N
G

era".

Soybean new, warm lit up all the pubs" "
vd’on did” oe E them =: #
I’ll paint it in tone with the faded tones of the sky and”
slightly green earth and trees, de-
revev may o zy m.
kami of the shadow." And $

Prague, thoughtful, modestly faded’
to W Irobed by the sun, the first little
the howl of the shroud has long since taken possession of the soul
poet; Early M us help 1912 ‘a
late 6 p.m. it’s clear that the mood
Lostinj, in the first stories only
what was planned has now grown, finally,
crystallized. › ^ her

(The author is fully aware of his free mood. In
In one of the stories, “Dawn,” he explains
his ta! “that watery spring dawn,
shi } this dear expanse stirred up, in
his soul has faith l 19 that I also carry many verses:.
his distant homeland awaits soon too
The answer is that he waves victoriously over her,
joy and happiness for everyone."

PROLETARIAN CULTURE

M 11-12

“And on the snowy ground lay a threshold,
chilling the young tender shoots, and
cash about the harsh cold of reality, with
who still have to ‘fight’.

Describes Loptin exclusively. wood-
nude and, moreover, the village of the ‘new’ time, in
starving people come here every now and then to rest
Bolsheviks - St. Petersburg workers, They are observed
activities, conversations and moods and’ composition
They usually say something, but nothing,
specifically proletarian. data transfer

no life, _ vr ik

E HF, things, should be attributed to ‘dis-
tales “Dawn” and “Utransfer" and
and C: And ``

G. E. Nechaev, “Evening songs,” Stiikhotovo
Renia, 1914 Moscow. 153 i. 1 rub.

“Whoever seeks revelations, and words,
the book won't give you anything, but who will be pleased?
be in communication ‘© myogostral, sensitive
a noble and sensitive soul to the sublime
new and beautiful, to whom these ‘poems are about-
a lot of Russian workers will be delivered
bright moments,” so says the publisher,
that's true; but not one thing made us
take up the hier with the measurement and enter the non-
some heartfelt words" according to "Evening"
them peson" of the old "worker, Ve

We live in bright spring days, when
a new life is revealed, a magical tale
koyuu ‘in he was born when the Russian people

still dragged through the chains of a serf. rights, and us

tea to have when some of the modern"
new figures yet. and not, say, ©) worker
movement. s
if we present certain
strict class requirements for modern
proletarian poets. and writers, 19 these
requirements do not apply to mo-
whom- began to write at 189 2, and not to whom
now 60 years+.
Nechaev. interested in
vyh poets-proietarians.
niya strangers to us m poro
and insignificant, but through them
on! Russian proletariat. And if he's me,
wants to be Ilvn, who has no kinship,
then he won’t be bothered by what “suffer and
worried: they were excited, in what they “found” joy and
the consolation of his brothers and so far from the na-
Tod's turbulent times. "Now it's like this
the sun is shining brightly, in the sky, deep
whose, demonic,
Russian reality,
Nechaev was born in 1869.
working crystal iki"

let him be in the mood,
‚seem amazing

in a poor family

Nm “a

But in the tenth year, when the poppy was not yet

survival of a short period of time, pre-natal period, deer

‚ gives it forever, “khlontsa” to “gutu”,

on oteklyanay vavodeoi 0. 0 Adi
What a story, fuck izama ov
to your song: and IR
“Under there are wheels and glass,
Under the roof of a noisy factory, /,
Among the homeless people
My life flowed bitterly, Yo
Without adyh aory. and days |’
Watering the lines of sh'ekorbey,
I'm a child of the darling 'I knew, oh
I didn’t know “yunobui” endless, ^^^

okuzilsha is harshwow.

what, .
as one. yy. measures."

passed
Svv 1-42

.. And instead of heartfelt joy, soy
‚ “Honey eater, lack of sleep is strong
oopoyr pouriadety measure in winter,
Y (And suffocated in the summer heat, burn
The poet suffered, but from this life
ini-yurma; thirsted” known, “to” “get
‚his ree Ze t t k t.
shu` che =. ‘I’m going’ ik, but’ -
she el Dana Zichy `he couldn't drink anything
suppositories Ch: om o umok, in Mul xx I
Novg. and asshole and grandmother
comforts” him; ^ Show ‘at’ the stars, Oya
speak th and mitzankn } non cm
and the exchanges are obvious OB 9
“To all those who were born in the dark,
Stars send © heights naked
‚In, brilliance, ray of hot ›irivetu
yell, oblivion and thoughts, clearing, pi
| © by myself. into the endless distance
Where ie kasletsi ‚hearts with swords ie
Where is there an angelic choir without. butt
In the solemn hymns spavia si
minu a bosh voe Creators
There's only in. the sky where the stars are
**) I It and 6 AN ‹ Fairies:
Dear granddaughter, suffering, neh ©
“And nnuchka believes that @sl, the fawning world
& good god, but ‘life is painful
RY NEOG Mio 18 his'"rudiyoroyu'dive bya
words of protest,
And he is in the image of a “Pagan” with a foul in
Shout out to your heart and “check; rn”
“I believed him from the cradle:
gong He dobrooon‘ dobro-emne talkia,
1 and 1 ` LLP house,
foul they laid me down, in
‘fashionable, lovable and slu pu dare...
Having passed through the pestilence. To my dreams. bestshlod-
Ui WINA o.” C
Alas! -now ‘no, I believe, their spam is important,
I understood: onome ‘will help us, |
Slaves of need, downtrodden, hungry...
g om bovovino ‹oamirs! with I can’t’ evlo-
a lot of E and mov. ‚ NIFSYA_
5. G. In supplication, therefore, to God,
‚.. And to the poor. alien Enough! I don't want to
mii. Mm, I can’t. I'm a bocee! pray: and and
He threatens the poor man with suffering.”
“He gives heaven to the happy!”

And organize your life E IT
Igia sa ovin'sya, everything is cooler and cooler $

|

| }
a }

“

*( + c
“Volen-teria, don’t show left4uo
‚ ‚It’s half-hour, but please don’t go away ||
xo Fyul sorry zkenka;, try, ilokho.
‚(In war, logo ‘di wolf pestilence oh!
"Wherever you are, always and everywhere"
“Krill and, think about hard work!”

'And between 'topics x
oo ue and Raosharlailot ‘backwater’

Factory pipes are laid out in rows from "
Their owners' incomes tripled!

“And! only with a ditch
At 9! SRO ‹

1

II UV tu

Cho I
\ ikozoov imooa

“Work in the bloody language until the language,
“Poor, as hungry as ever in the yoke”

“And in the 5th and 5th years” of the monks in the Aradani sweat
she wants to pin down nonsense, with the whole world:

‚ ‚ “After all, we are here.” me 'anermu not: chipped!

3+

PROLETARIAN `JULBTU RA.

„‹ Noshenno in front of the oe\om pyrisovvvetsya
oidevl free sweepstakes direct to

it

And 'Nebbena 'zero 'bovdan!' AI
| skein of chemicals. 49

“The poet prays for her.” Fascinating ‹ zAlamamum
‹ Bearish "Tata" (knyka korobeinii) and' vi\i-
ozhami I"Zi she, 109! wants to sing"
‚goddy. song', prick ate', so o Mo
re“, but there are no gentle avukovi uro in it)

th

and bmschi V r ra m

oppression OE SAYAN shovae vm
No Alueteya is a poet, but ve! the ego doesn't dare

when he will be pleased, even if he is far away: then!

d 'miracle, 60 r, y

.. t ‘ in I G? th
o MRIU m mu nya
‚Noel Dojido Novini 7 J I oto Ro
to this it seemed like a vase; liana style,
'In the collection' there are many' poems, 'agosmya-
‘valuable’ rustic. nature; Tear off
otive how the workers are living; Nechiev
tubit" shole; ‘dense forest, silvery
‹ river) that, entwining the willows, bletse” ‘in the middle’ there-
WWII, quiet evening, ruddy morning morning,
the nightingale's trill? But these pictures are not’ 66-
ghats kraskalig, sometimes too chunetvi-°
are worthy, Just not bad dedications of loving
to our poets Drozhishin, Surikov, Koltsov,
Nokrasovuti'drutimi and i ‘1loo0 iotohoh
“Stronger things include Boy
noy”, “Gusayar%u” “Golov dunia*, In Wimiklu
nepoto" m some "others; „Poly pro-
parallel lithrima “Trains” oh | s
The poet is still alive. Not far away body in 1914,
he was still working at the glass factories
= rit. Moscow province.

Nechaev’s poetry is in the past, but it is in
resna to us, Like otavun’ of a certain ‘historical
ric stripe; she’s ‘close’ to us, pak! Chabutt,
them. long 'etradaiy, about obona about Viy
and’ ›Wamahi“, 14 ‘collection of Faratovesky’”
letkult. 191%. 197 etr.’ Price ‘che ‚’
‘price.dgozyu vno hlyarlivat fat keZia

"Little gray 'book, with 'futur-
static scribbles on the cover; obviously
diya 'explanations 'aaoLovka/ collection, Like
halfway, › visual artist, ›chchob
‘his’ work was not lost, ‘in large typeface
noted: “cover by ‘artist’ Valentii

“Yustizhkogo”: “With the cover design it’s quite
harmonize" and’ howl’! le ‘things, ‘koforye’©6-
yawning!" content, obornivts, ‘everything! it’s a demon.
strong uvamahi" of the authors; who are trying
‹‘shout out! sopy m* melodrama‘ fashionable
iovo proletaf ovunvtury; But’ ‘970 im
absolutely not possible; There’s no’ them nor’tvlanta,
ni dakhse: °prosayh ‘abilities; &/ most importantly,
there is no understanding of the problems of the proletarian ‘culture’
tours: Kanie-to’ ‘snippets of ‘old’ men: in
various old ones. forms. Cheap' for enthusiasts,
lacking success,’ Inielyaigentenii
ref adaptation of the ‘European’ to the new.”
all! this passage is 01st,
that ‘the Saratovites have ‘une. ©’ sil”, ‘kaz’ they
proudly introduces itself into the ‘obrytsenim’ BT Litera-
tour studios; and therefore; that beat M6-
enough razvichchy; that eyes tele chat
AAA OS HERE ERIRRTT

‚wobemweniolo tu; om lruleto ‘dobaliyugi, me
well thought out: rem) ^ cho
` 06 these new ways will be pissed off at least on
pages of our magazine. It wouldn't have been otherwise

would be and unmanned attempts to prove
"amvak, polemicizing others that “Saratov-

tsy' voe. ‘and’ rad children of workers
‘most valuable, and’ others about
no; according to „special special, we

strizl requirements": tk
"Not rec. in individual things. Their
hardly less than the pages of the collection, but
IOT Well IR neither the reader complains about us,
nor the authors of the e-book, so we won’t give it to everyone
enough attention and led
Here comes Nina Omirnova with her
“Braids through the smoke.” In heavy pain
she looks painfully; "nak mermaids"
their tails overturn the gimp years.
_Itching9 shards with wet braids, paska-
tu odunal | with your bestowed hands“, Otranny
image! It’s unclear why’ this is a revolution,
`ravuchiinitsu culture of the old. years
`oppression, had to be represented in the form
mermaids luring into the net with their beauty
‚toysi in an unearthly voice." The revolution is coming

openly. brow, Contradictory image.

“Revolution, like a mermaid, is not swaddled or
he calls upon the old ones to strangle them. U
revolution. neg. wow, insidious ‘iriem. But
The end is worse; Mermaids © wild
old years are thrown into the abyss with laughter, but
Yamyk Katz has been swaddled these years. wet skin
themselves. mermaids, then it turns out that
the mermaids themselves threw themselves into the abyss
or at least s. fragments of old
years on the neck sewn to the bottom. Strange car-
mud of revolution, .

Even more absurd is “Green Over There,” where all the laugh-
italos; child and; goblin, grassy
moses and silk covons, and to the creator himself
this. I wanted to end the primordial chaos
from business creation, “I want to ‘already’ bro-
sitey and stretch across all the roofs.”
But it’s good that everything is real. has an end.
Vol ovam Lydia's things, At six ma-
She described it to us on tiny pages; „Night
and death", "Spring Night", "Oceas", 4th

ыы", Noon", "Ponnoch", "ore" not. yes-
True story and... “Oteklyshko”/Add some style here

. hotv “Veselaya” and the story “Propo-
copper." Now the reader can judge that
‚omde talent, © which. author of four-
in these lines he develops one or the other
with its numerous themes; at

‚ It’s frudno ‚ to provide anything positive
©. things ‚ Warm mo Strokova. But they
before being put in. merit at least
20, why don’t they make faces, imitating their
tlo collection. But they have 'etranic'
vnus. We are boremeya. aa.new light, rz-
a dignified life, full of happiness, in Otrokova
prefers a ‘strict’ life in thorns
a laurel crown, and the revolution is depicted in it

re oh, empty, t. yin residential, co-
frame and right-jiva”, zay
”

the new, round one became red and pale
‘Olyaltse, Somewhere deaf, heavy tossing willow-

And reno moisture is increasing -
schi. gooey". This is how Tetzlova draws
Approximation. revolutions, comments on

MORNING TAR "CULTURE.

cabbage soup

"No.} 1-12

this, CHIEL, fuck you yourself

You really feel the prevetch“ ‘brev’.
Che" orschriiyn of Vienna: No.
natechatalvia" "sti" Vinokurova:

„Songs

cars" and "Children.pond" and
Ras = and mov. be generous

SI ohm, GDP. oh, and ‹ Zuyovny
in the form of obi 4 puts a draft oek,
“ZAndrey Cherny” (Essay) Kryuchkova star

by design and, moreover, not developed,
‚ Things by K, Molodovetsky. no response
they also have ties to the proletariat
artistic value is not appreciated,
There is in the collection a colorless song called “O
man”, “screaming in a liberal spirit;
literary" characteristics of Emil Ver-
harna, which under the measure of’ the author’ looks
small, gray and noisy. Where
only’ multi-coloredness and multi-
grannostn soul BelniyskoRo noeta!
"Mom would like to stop 'one more thing
on which of the first Saratov “Vemakhs”,
but we are afraid of the snake plunging the reader into
sadness and despondency, or cause annoyance and
irritation and he will put the collection aside
well, & after all, there is a slight ‘quiet-
thinking in prose by A. Tretyakov “Despondency”,
which with its thought, mood and fo-
mine stands out among others ^-

V. Popov, Stories. Publishing house Petrograd-
of the Proletku staff. 1919 83 pp. Tsema
Er. 95 hk.

There are two races in this book: “Zalis” and
“Death of Obovina.” In both stories
describes the position of ‘officials’. —

In the first one it goes in front. reader scene
then on 'o' y' with | opening of the season,
Officials waiting for the “senior” crowd
huddle at the gate, discussing “the war of ‘Ndezhda’
for admission, relying on recommendations
kargochki about "income, 'visitors, urban
boss, ‘okolotochnogo’ and ‘relatives’
director of the garden, Then comes the reception scene
to the service, and the director of the garden Velugin
selects "recommended, obedient,
considerate; speedy and able to “yay”
visitor: —” yes oh

’ `IChienov Union’ official of the youth; of course

no need. u ыы } '
The second depicts the work itself in
s. r. Uz:

and against the backdrop of kulezhi ir r in the offices
The drama Osokniv is taking place. Not having time in time
listen to the ‘profitable’ visitation, Osokin
loses ‘zest; when he wears it for long
torment goes and she is blamed before the visitor
lem (these scenes pass by every day),
he drives him away, FatherlyIaniya is exhausted

_ ny Osokin` in the visitor’s office ‘table-

you’ll not cut your throat and die-
yells. at

“Kholuy’s muzzle found a place where..
the visitor threw out an unfinished sentence,”

about another office."

From the stories it is clear that the ‘author’ feels
lies and suffering together with. their
waiters, but he doesn't have any money
colors, not the necessary artistic power,
to depict, I’m glad to see the heroes from that
if you

No. 11-12

with the speed with which I wrote, I. PI Chalk
I restaurant m. days oe db

N. Tikhomirov. "Red East", Otoishi
Edition Ie ‚Proletkultiae: 1919
48; page Price 3 rr and"

Tikhomirov admires the plant. This is: prognegagon
writes! ‚o in Agni
o. “Here you are, he’s so brave”
Shaggy smoke billowed, Ra
Firey, kitty-haired about the soy
Snilshcheg about the roar: let's kick! oto
“Here he is, powerful; menacing, drunk...
+ Irnim ‘nurpur burn! about and
“He will drop bright chervonets and
Ivkr, and thunderstorm.” \

The poet assures that “his stormy ‘etikhi
elapvyuteya "under the hum of the unfashionable camps"
con" that his "broken strings moan, sing
under the blows of steel hammers.” m th

This is not always the case, I feel my roots
the poet went deep into the earth, into the rustic
‘nature and life, } Snakes

He convinces us that the plant is “overshadowed”
‘purple’, that ‘before him the sun turns pale’,
“What from thorns, furs and furs” he did not understand-
children “into the colorful distance,” but his “Nuznetsya,
whose “calves splash with bright gold”,
dreams: .

.’ „That’s where the face is invroe

‚yer healing rays,
Where do they get it, transfuse it 99
Talking Hands: Pizmoiy
Take a break from the booze ^
Damage my native meadows

And listen. I wish I could give strength to the little dawn
And Tsesni free pickles,

Yes, and you too, Nout, who came from the village to
“The city is drunk,” he begins to cry in sadness;
"In-kitsuki city life
I love the forest
and I will hear with faith
And ‘bring flowers, playful ^”
th. I will protect in my soul 0 o.
o And giving a lot of thought to my dear hearts 12
Ya uneiu in my native fields"

__And spendthrift. “aromas” of relatives ‘go moon
is located in a small pimzhna, egikhon. Oshi-
Does it mean spring, summer, autumn, winter, ohx is always indicated: division, and the last
"He is inspired by ina precrab. etrotsi.
Naurimer: G m 7

“In a peaceful world, gentle!
y Kolopolchizhi Avenue, ^^ b:
piss Cho. na rosti ‘k onam ziebisie. th

+

+ ыы

"and the Jurassic tentoro lemr, tyany

and Lutea; pussy fall on
’. Etraetnye i'mrum sounds
Uuriluti richie drowsy,
And the pond wakes up the frogs.”
Vitu dela “svdovlaeya” nurea,
ar $ ‹ „ eya | ” Oh
at least in the haze of the night they began to freeze,
''Under the vegetables the evil bastard is screaming
And screen the gates with malice;
Otavia was cut off from the snowstorm, laughing,
Blowjob with a silver shawl © shoulder,

3$

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. about:

Runs” aa oviyam' and movu o
What a broom is the path between,
And threw it like a wolf at you
Pulls fine flax fiber."
Village - one and the same
wonderful “Sorochiny”, and not a bad thing
“The tambourine face”, and other venotorium
gie 34 “Father Aya
These moods are eradicated by the posture of our father
nlaesov, proletarian motives and ugre-

‚they beckon to this vvimamiye ma „Rus“, on „Vol-

mitsu^..
But; this is a new one: |
EPO neg: n% fields neotivorous; |
Earing ears nurse-rye";
''"And 'tuga and glades of Ziaradim, ,
Rus' is free and Iyshio Tsveletch,

The plowman has “powders” and “powders”
fire" mosque in the Soul, 77 3
Anime u” rasyuutkde 5 6
. NIU MK UK #1!
and Fiesilki. stolen kisses,
® with tender cornflowers,
mod black, ‘fast paced,’ lomyoshey role.
“Bel Radviou Intel has become “younger”, according to
this is neprasovonat ‘ebuuchemnai zhelishchinya,
inoboro", she is a pile but her very

„ The chest is high and the body is wavy
Under, a white shirt, it’s ener.”

And here is ‘Volnitsa’:”

"In Rus' free, red
Wu "freedom is alive and",

Russ-bunfarna got loose: ^^

t towns and villages of Buriri city
at Ulas Rus before. bottom, 18
‚'veeya bird m lavuri, ooo
Full of youthful will,” oh
But this is not just re-revolutionary-democratic
NS spruce at the machine and with
with his heart in the tree he goes and strokes the s-
No wonder you collected it? 'Begins' poetically-
renithm" „Deduction we
“Are we your brothers?” © 70o
"I" are workers, gee - music guy,
Our strong embrace - I
Death and deathl 'dla 'lords, ›!
I feel, you are plowing the field, IO,
“Obama lives a hard life, oh ta I
‹, 95a. rvemsi and. bright 'zero,
S. we take every step*.

Shelt, I am a collection of poems, a dedication to the world,
worker, fist worker
others, but they are nothing like those, oh-
than, Anna's poem you
nation in KN Wu paired tones and dis-
echtinano Yves NEEY taste. sy
Tikhomirov masters verse, Although the gzagol
it rhymes and often spoils this verse;
„Soldier's chaff: finish, ^^ 100
Everyone has a crew cut, envesh,
Pogost’ sick or ‘measured’
All the ‘tears, there were a lot of whining about’

uv a: 419 (“5% CI
This is already becoming boring and tiring

. "I

x Aa
m ›

If 6 from the collection, throw out a few
poems, he would have won {with ideas-
no side. and from the artistic side
Noah. Dina Chi
But here the blame falls not on the author, but on —-
from the editor. o O 2:2

; and y* 4 >‘

Heinrich Kunov. . “The emergence of reality: and
faith in God." Translation and preface by I. Ste-
Zignova: Book publishing house “Communist” 191
163 etr. Price: 18 rub. . in
. We are with great interest and attention
started reading the work of G. Kunov.
Marxism paid less attention to issues of religion
attention than it should. Therefore
any work on this issue, even
depending on its scientific value, finds
its reader, but the work of G. Kunov has,
undoubtedly scientific significance and gives God-
ty historical material illustrating
the author's position. - p

Kunov introduces in his work. amendment
to Engels’s view of religion, “according to the interpretation
the origin of which in the first stages of history
complexes of religious ideas define
were made by the forces of nature; and only a lot
later as formative forces along with
the forces of nature came out and the public
forces (i.e. social factors) determined
"divided by the system of economy."

Noting the strong influence on K. Marx
F, Engels; Max Muller; who was
being the main representative of the doctrine of the first
the beginning of the cult of nature, 1. Kunov in
throughout. throughout his work he proves
to the reader by & analysis of the development of religious
nykhrepresentatives of savages, “that faith in
spirits arise in a savage not out of fear
before the forces of nature, & in fear of
the riddle of our own internal department.
Character. differentiation of the initial
of the other world of spirits, ‘conferring her relics with pro-
cable culture does not depend at all; from
influence of natural forces; on the contrary, he defines
divided into developed, divided socially
Tribal organization: ‘the emergence of tote-
mystical groups, families of neighbors, pre-
mov communities, tribes, etc. d..---sedatively,
way of organizing life together,
which in turn is determined by a special
the nature of obtaining’ ‘means of subsistence
“mania”, mania!

Despite the abundance of references to phasic
studies of religions’ among ‘primitive peoples’
dov, in abundance, in places. absolutely ‘nooo/:-
painful, tiring;  boring and monotonous
pushing back the ‘main’ idea; author
not always convincing. Striving. ob’asnitu,
‘everything about obtaining funds is
vapiya, G. Kunov loses sight of those pro-
Regarding the oshoshonia, I who sti-
new members of the tribe, community or
selna. Leaving aside the analysis of separation
labor; among primitive Peoples, and division
members of the primitive society? you are in charge
tels and performers, the author could not
needed clarity and convincing
“The need to find out the question of the origin”
Wait! totem gods, oAchinYa

The question of veneration of ancestors and religious origins
the wait for God is clearly clarified by A. Bogd” -

No. 11-12

new in those of his’ works in which ‘he ka-
saw the development of thought in the ‘primitive human’
catcher.

"For 'equal' bewilderment, yother
in this case’can leave the book G, Wu-
new, we recommend reading the corresponding
e, chapters from “The Science of Social Soci-
knowledge" by A. Bogdanov and from the "Political Course"
Economic Economy" ‚A Bogdanova and I. Stepa-
new Tom them! And * pavosen“|

Despite this drawback, the work
with sufficient ‘convincing’. proves
what in’. the development of religious ‘predets-
phenomena among savage peoples' the lowest sign
famous people have and are engaged in
advantageprimarily by hunting; fish tip,
cattle breeding or by cultivating the land, and
pavovo for another separate case
reading these forms of economy”,

By comparing individual locations from
the five tabernacles of Moses and their battle with
scientific research of ethnologists and san-
scriptologists, the author teases out contradictions
Christian teaching about the creation of the world in
seven days and indicates which elements of this
teachings from where and how they were introduced into
Online No.:

Questions such as how
the soul in the minds of primitive people
from a being shaped like a man,
turned into a tsikaya airy subetan-
tion; as with economic differentiation
and the division of functions in society comes
in a certain sense, the separation of ‘functions and
between the gods;

Instructive; especially for the general public
Unfortunately, there are few masou
new places, bots, in which ‘the author is
remembers how close they are to the pagan pre-
stabilization of savages, certain points of our
religious worldview. the issue of
we will repay; for example, ‘it is emphasized that
“established by experience as a fact, here, in
earthly death; almost everything’ can be bought:
position, ‘honor,’ power, love, etc.
in the most naive way transferred to that
esiznt". “How many such / pious and
"educated" Christians who believe that
payment for funeral services or donations
in churches and monasteries they can improve
your own fate or that of your loved ones in jeopardy
this ‘liani’. |
` What is the difference in religious views
dinar and modern Christianity? Nika-
coy. Both the savage and the modern Christian
stianin bribes god and} and with what
big ones he wants, get them from. god biag, the
does more than that, it’s better for him. Having issued-
whoever makes a good deal will, of course, thank you
God not with a candle, solder, komek" but with a good one
an icon, a new koyovol, a porch or
pakim - or baagorate them. establishment
niya, t 5 niya,

At this historical moment, when
there is a struggle among the working masses not only for
political viviness, but also va socialist
ical worldview, which in Vorne negates
tsaet any religion, we strongly recommend
We recommend work. G, Kunova, especially. for
party lecturers and agitators, -

ee aaa, Lebedev.

I HER IER ORVI TUR ET CHU AOI
ETARIAN CULTURE.

.

„No. 11-12

Herman Gorter. Historical mother-
alism. Translation and foreword by I. Stepanov.
Book publishing house “Kommuniet*”. LU v. 149
"tr. Price 1% rub. r

‚ ‚Historical Maleriaam in itself
not yet a worldview; this is the way; environment,
one of many means leading to a new
worldview: how. Darwiniam, how. everything
natural science, Kazakh doctrine of Marx about writing
tale and the teachings of Dietzgen Fr. spirit or spirit
They will also appear in such environments.”

“Historical materialism is a theory
which will embrace. that the spirit is determined
social, being that social
being forces thinking to move according to the
divided paths. and has a decisive
influence on the desires and actions of the individual
minds and classes." } p

This is how the author formulated his original
point, starting to work about the historical
malerialivme,

Your task, with the exception of certain
places, the author allowed, quite correctly on
a number of modern ones. loved ones. and understandable’ pro-
lesariat examples from his general public
struggle, and, moreover, in popular ‘language. All
this will make me recommend Kimiu G. Gor-
tera to the most active circles of the proletariat.

“For the purposes of social democracy, as ‘writes
G, Gorter, & we will render communism, enters
not only the transformation of private property
cost for the means of production, i.e. for strength
nature, tools. and. I hope, in. general ‘own-
it is important to understand why this transformation is carried out
boasts through political struggle
would be, the conquest of state power: co-
cialdem ocracy covers not only lyoli-
tical economic struggle - no, it
represents something more, she hugs
also the ideological struggle of the
nic classes, the struggle of 8 ‘worldviews’
nie“.

This work makes it possible to understand
to the Russian worker the essence of history
materialism as one of the means in the struggle
for his proletarian worldview,

Author of the analysisAll the most important questions are covered:
science, knowledge, law, politics, morality
ity, religion, philosophy and art; howl
these problems are presented to the reader in vivid
com coverage of historical materialism,

True, on the question of religion Gorter is
hodiya se Kunov, which notes in advance
Slovenia and Comrade Stepanov, but in this case
This doesn't weaken the argument at all.
TGorter. Kunov believes that at first there was
nucht of ancestors, and then the cult of nature; Gor-

ter held the opposite opinion, But
and that and the other vv iv vo-!
ram © obvious naked I'm lucky

ent,‹ KoieaiYa And this method gave brilliant results

prove that religion is a product of
nykh,
the most felt.

From the bottom of our hearts we would like to note the

A RI

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

industrial relations; A. these are 'chat rooms'
U

noe movement, Gorter; be-can, without giving
fully clear about the importance of your words,
speaks of a new form of proletarian movement
married when he proposes to the worker that he
in the evenings “sending to the meeting of his
trade union, party, or
proletarek ‘nulturno-proevetitelny
society." Oh realizes that “new knowledge
the diya of the proletarian struggle is also necessary,
as a professional organization“ -poly-
'ic wrestling', encore

Bourgeoisie by virtue of its public
situation is forced to ‘resort to akim, and
This relates to more than just everyday life
struggle, not ‘before all this and’ to the scientific sweat
regarding: specifically’ ‘society itself’ ‘and ‘all
the rest of the trusts, |

Elsewhere the author lags the question
and about the most common ways of thinking, pointing out
that a “specific way of thinking” is
professors of legal sciences and political
economy, judges, notaries, etc., defining -
studying industrial relations,

These problems remained with Gorter
undeveloped; ‘but ‘it’s important’ that; what do-
of the proletarian struggle put forward
gats'. them on stage, pack inevitable, instinctively
tive desire. proletarianism.

The book / Gorter stands out favorably
among popular literature about history
materialism and its contentand with our presentation, & that’s why we etze! times
we insistently recommend to her attention that
letariat, s ‚L,

A. Bogdanov and I. Stepanov. Kure poly
time `okonomin. Volume '3- Issue 4%
General theory of capitalism. Pollektivietii-
ical system, State Publishing House.
Movnta 99. 905‘ 6tu. Price 95 rub.

pi Damimi Vyshusk is the last you-
starting a wonderful teamwork
according to political economy, which has long
years will be a reference book for every inte-
dealing with economic issues.

When the first volume appeared, it was in
1910, one of the bourgeois reviewers
Comrade, cashing in on Rusokoi Mysl, wrote that
in essence, the course before us lies
lytical economy, and a course on the history of pul-
tours. A naive reviewer from his height
bourgeois science could not understand and
master the principles and methods of this work. Like
all bourgeois economists he believed that
`nure should have been divided into separate
chapters on production, exchange, distribution
division and consumption in their theoretical
in traction, and not in historical sequence

Amality and connection, what method is used
the authors of the mar-

committing ourselves to the readers, we are bright
in economic life. life
various eras, starting from the !primeval

tea, abandoned, as if subconscious, communes and ending with capitalism and given

the author's comments, which remained unclear
-exhausted in work, but who have gained
activity and to whom we devote a lot
pay attention to the pages above the falls.
Understanding socialism nb6 only as poly-
chemical struggle, but naktrokoe cultural

33

pollectivistic society, because
This can be judged by the available “patents”
according to the data. In the kureya ‘readers will find all-
ma instructive pages and © `\om, naya
the development of the productive forces was reflected

° on the organization of economic relations
76

various elements of society and on them
ideologies, on their methods of thinking.

@completely leaving aside the olestyaitsie
pages devoted to general theory of ka-
vitalism, we, work on, developmentth in-
protov prolezaroy culture" would like
will draw the readers' close attention to
those chapters in which this “place and
data on the theory of labor value in the study

heh", "ideological, fapvych. "pro-era
miililennogo kalgil eta" and upachof tie in eno-
xy collectivism”, o oh .

Pictures of the industrial capital
thalia, creating the individualistic. and
commodity-fetishistic thinking to the fullest
developed, begins to break and destroy
shake him, preparing his final
replacement with a new, higher type"; - like “mni-
small, somostonnost, „about individual
weeli growing together © fragmentation
more complicated and more complex. his experience,
snatches, somehow disguises, worldviews
class and group”, paintings | ideoyo-
gical, struggle in the industrial era
capitals and, from the time of the Reformation to the Russian Federation,
Russian revolution of 1105, -—her. ego. ever-
testament to the contradictory culture, bourgeois

ideologies and role. bourgeois ‹intelligent-
tion, which, being the exponent
class, interests. I. problems about bourgeois-
vii, refused to hold on to himself, kunshur-
"and the guiding function:

chapter “Collective system” an-
5. is equipped with new technology
quality, emphasizing, “What technical
the basis of moldentivnama will be non-nolvo-
unrestricted wide comparative

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No.

$2

zadimzon energy, bring IH CHO univ yamali ko
“to flexible forms” he floats; yoke "automatic"
‘personally-regulated mechanisms’ = very
here is the meaning of the main ti` technique,
this in turn will lead to
as it was and in the dawn of mankind lived,
labor will become a trend. r oo ott ni o
nom, pierced. Having left the culma m </- No.
"that and invalidated si

eniten and form riya eek she
pudet predetanint uniu chno-brrnlilonaniyu
system. companionship. centrality
chelic team. oenonny nor pelichy-
the mobility of its elements and their group
iorirovka, with high isichicheeka oxygen-
whining of workers, like military
tykh. workers"

In connection with the new economic situation andnew economic provisions, but
ry deployed with ‘historical non-page-
ness in the global mvepigab, lost bet -
ro and easy linearistic unification of the
humane", which will be developed by a single
iayk of the universal human vulgura equals
echononaya; special science of the ‘orramiza-method’
tions" and the final result will be the
ionic! world view, active, social,
willow-moncelic"; which zigdoname-
she thinks of the old norms of society in relation to
itevoi I, ddvin eat dlg o veeh ri oru

‚ ingeresovi and / y

With this involuntary and convoluted repercussion
inueresukitsih nay emyele so bopatoy
With the contents of the book we end ours"
review; strongly recommending irony
a book for a military participant in the great war
p face-to-face

nuyu ‚6. stupid people ‹ to humanity p. L.
rn Nala asks to send it to her for feedback, workers. irrills. collections
Ocheaiy proletarian vets and poets.
r AUM, ‹ . in
In u O I m r ] ' # fir x% a
ai digs. in $ UC nor. }"yid!
Yam! om 4 chur 9 m: . m toi
Gy. Fklluk watch och Bona like me
iya :Х *, d as MA ‚ you 3 AA
I TK 3rd + AE p r ry Move + k
m I b C I RAGE act RT mi {
1. Ga o 1 $ % s , # 1 and . › A
+ at ru schu. mo MT. G \& c GI NIE
IR nina o & ni n 3) WTO
5% have! ‚ maky › 4 mind
in in } “
+ G ma + Ufa 9 {
n ". "7 inf $
g - # a No. 4
' in ' '
1 rlu? and.
th sa = max
1 fl #r } $9 ; zit
oooh. Publisher, . oh bastard 49 neo yo will we mm edantorchyya
_Gosudiryuttennov, publisher: measure. romeo Fedancia deer,
I NS O S Ma dr NAIAN QY

B A

Geudaretveniya zipopraphy of baths. "about M. 2 Soli AN n them 1
* } i
It's a pity!

E

: Ned: banner at be, `, Polyansky. - "Proletkult" - and
s: 1 orgy span, self-identity. In: Pherzhentsav. — Proletariat and creativity. |
rii TB Is this proletarian bullshit? 4. Bozyanov. - = O. reenertoire of the workers' theater" V; To God: >.
I’m O Vserdes, conference manager kz.” slave, ‘org. Organ." Burv: - Chronicle of Troletkult"x Art.)
’_ Kryvtsov—_Vibliography: “Beautiful Light. H.—“Flame,” Creativity” d, 9. “Future” 1. 9
No. 2 AND L Nationalism. and social: MA. Polyanekin.— Our toritpka.. Art. 1+ayag/ A. 'Bodani -
No. 2. July. Worker, club. f, Shiinin.=-Ilezz vobpilamiya. /A. Bogdanov.--To Fozyv Voeros.,
yy prol, k-yr. about papalizations, Abstracts of reports”, Revolution: and cultural tasks of the proletariat: and
V. Polyansky, =-Science and working class, Ch. “Bogdanov; -Proletariat art. 41. Gunacharsekiy.—
Ideals of ‘sonnalistic’ education. Ya. Ulyanova I. Pruzhkaya) Iron. messiah. B: Woo-
ri \lov:-—Funeral A:, Pomorie r work. 1.Gaetv. - Khroshik “Proletkult” “Deuteronomy”
Conf., Petrogr. “p gold kudta”\, /1. 5/1 In' provinces. 6%. Rietsov.-— Bibliography: Literature. Al
manah, V, V, 1. o ‘imiryazev, Red Banner. A. ©:-——Izvestia” Moskov, Prolet;. Un-tah 05 -M,

No. 3. 3. Av "Motifs of working poetry, Polyanevia Our peritika: Sl. "aya. Ah Vdedanov. = ^
T. Circle work. Si. Prmenov. —=Kaiss toatr. `Malinits, -To sales

All-Russian no prol. to pr; organizations, Abstracts of reports" Proletarsky com This: Krnetsov, Norma
representation and work plan of the conference, : Organ. Bureau; Proletkult Chronicle: In the provinces.
et. Kuivtsov-Bibliography: “A... Voglanov. "Red Star" and "Engineer. MEPNIG. / O. UD.-iS.
Tierso. Celebrations and yy of the French Revolution, 7 2. &Two reccenans. A. (.->©Х, editors?

No. 4; September. Comrade Lenin. V, /Golyanekits, - Methods: labor’and methods, knowledge, A.: Bogdanov.
| " we are critics, and the poetry of A. Gastev. F, La. min: -Trul vos +
nutritious and productive work in the new: likol. V. /yulyaneky. = What should a worker be?
club; -Y. Vrupskaya.-- All-Russian Union of Working Writers. V. /Shonelyov. - To the convocation. Veeross. >
conf. cont. k-pr. organizations. Abstracts of dokaads:. Workers' cooperatives and. prolelar cultural,
construction; 27, Vasilevenii, - Vosenai plant. Pesiya ‘about’ iron. Poems; L. Geraei: luv.--Chronia
'Proletkult'!: Moscow "Proletkult,: Report. In the 'province: Se., Kuivnov, - Bibliography"
"the future!" "and "T. = Food": 0.--- "Interat, Prizozh,"; No. 1. V, G. Tiorchestvo. M:
Kirillov. Poem. I. L. `V. Fritsche: Proletarian position, V. G.

——— ————-—--I
No. 5. November. ' With. proletarian "dictatorship. No. Polyansii. ft "Ideology of Production, r
——————— ). Laliiiin. Proletarian. university.” d, Bogdanov.” - Organization of literature
official and, V... Perventsev. > First 'All-Russian'. kopfer. Herod. cult. - clearance.
organizations, V. Kunavin. -= Conference resolutions; - Chronicle. “Proletkult”: “V. provinces”
(and Vriatsov, Bibliography: egori”, V. Polanski, =: In “storm and flame”: V: 1 chi; -9
In vestments." 2. O = "From the diary of the children's shaft", B) Khersomenaia: Gorilo",

her “Roaring} lushaya“ cultura”; G. r;

s in 1909 February "International revolution and its culture; V. Kerzhentsev, ==
: About neurology. 4, Valimini› — Next questions. No. Polyamshky. =
Methods. workers of “Proletkult”, V: erzhenev. > Theory and practice; “G. Oedelnitov. = Ilan
organizations o odoniuny ta.” Prelmestvya. Poems No. RUudintzitein. ini "Proletkulna".
In the province. Om Krivtsov: ==: `Proletareki Cult, - enlightenment, organizations, < Bibliographies; to:
"Taroky collection", V. Polyansky. -2 "Messenger of Life, V. Vunavim. => "Culture to come."
"Zavoluyekrylyy*. 10. = © Malashikin. "Muscles". 21:0, - S. Vsenich. Transfiguration. ‘2. Gi
P. Oreiiiig “Red Rus'”, V L ©, Sre i ai newspaper. affairs% M. M; - “Glow.”
Zavozhon%, V. /Golyamemil 5 World and Man";

No. 7-8. April-May. Nroletkulg and Soviet work. A. unischreky,`-- Our for-
dachas and paths; 58. TGollinsvie - Essays on organizational science, 4. V0zda“
10th century - On the professionalism of workers in art. `FiKaliditsn, = About professionalism. B; Pletnev. - I
Collective "creativity in the theater, V. Kerzhenneg.. - About futurism. F. Casinii. = Poetry' Soviet
ini, -B; Polyansky. ‘>> “To the priests of art,” Verse. 28. _Pshchrillovg -` Aviators. „Rask
; UPlyanninov.— Model charter of the Proletkult club. Bseross.. (06: Proyetkulta, - Chro-
“U. “Proleltkult”: In the province, - - Ivsuruktorekie courses: Art. Khrivtsov.> res 3 Very good
py, Wibliography: A. Sidorov, Renovation and art." @: LD. No. Zalevsky (-- "Art
and prodetarnate\. Sun. Kriv/ov.--Grosik, Raskbasics: I. Rubbkon, - V. Ignatov. “Wedding Necheriika.”
I. Rudokot ayushki", V.G. - "Our first B, we eat tea. -+ "Red morning", 4:0; \
No. 9-10. June-July: Prozhetarai culture of its criticism. F: A'a.linim, Oh
< sing: spiders, From, 2: I Rozanov -Ch. Darvan IK. "Marx. V. Timirya:
No. 6: Understanding in the light of history. V. Polyansky. — Growth of Prolstkult’ 0, Riinin. — About trends
prolegarian cultures of A. /'asavg-=On the tendencies of the Iroletarian culture (yutvet Gastev), 2.71507
other. - C). provincial proletarian universities. A; Bozdaov.—Towards closing. prolefarsky
University, - Chronicle’ ‚“Proletkult”; In the provinces. 0. Raiin. =-Otiet. > Bibliography
M. Geraeimov, “Spring Plant”, m “Flowers under the garden”. 74. T.V. OI “Worker on
village"* and "North". 55 7Р-м-- A. Pomorsky.” Afvety. Uprising" Furnaces, $929: Zetkulg
I; 0, “Proletkult”, 11. Rudno. -—,Trul and Creativity" p: nye

Address Ts, K.V, S. Proletnulti and zhuyunil "PROLETARIAN CULTURE".

Moscow. Volkhonka! 13. be 26- 30. y.

46
Nobody" FROM t, NA and zy
NEYA she nniye, yen NR washes fatvi |

and ru` i
Raven, I
Ka has a furnace. a de td:

Out
$
b}
+ y $ (
Mo. m th
7% to OH
®
\ y
*. th
f “
y G.
*
|
in { Aa
$th
#4 }
$
$]
‘4
Ru
Yu
x
$
\