r.

Ti |
r a Proletarians of all fear, unite!

Proletarskaya.
Culture.

MONTHLY MAGAZINE.

Organ of the All-Russian Proletarian Council
Cultural and Educational Organizations.

No. 1-10.

July 1918 - July 1919

| STATE PUBLISHING HOUSE, CH.
MOSNVA, b
Proletarians of ... countries, p 9%?

Oletarskaya and

TWO-WEEK MAGAZINE.

| Organ Center. Committee of the All-Russian Council of Propetcult,
Publishing® of the State Publishing House.

’ Editorial office and office address: Moblva, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 25-53%,

Reception with the editorial secretary daily from 11 to 1 a.m. diya

No. 1. July. 1918
| F
\\ CONTENTS: From the editor, Under the banner of “Prolekhkult”.—V, Goltneia, vi
letkult"—org—V. n
Ogdanov, O re
pertoire of the workers' theatre.—V. Bovushchevsky, Towards the convocation of all Russia. conference "pr, organi*
tions, --Org. Bureau. Chronicle “Proletkult-St, Arietsoe. Bible: fiy: “Beautiful

| | = new light,” -V. H. “Flame”, “Creativity”. -A, 0" "Future L. t |

and creativity. —F. Kalinin. What is proletarian poetry? A.B.

Comrades!

The labor movement is developing towards our great goal—World Socialism.
in other ways. It originated as a purely economic, professional,
then cooperative; later it also began to develop into a political force; yet
later formed into a cult. rnaya organization. The bourgeois mar is not only
Naoply fought with these streams of new life: even from the very beginning he ‹ Taraleya
peacefully; to manage them, to take them under your wing, and for a long time the catfish managed to do this. Span-
having come out of the class of small proprietors, for a long time he himself did not understand all

the depth of its gap © by a society built on private ownership and
master's power, vacillating between struggle and cooperation of classes,
When he joined the bourgeois parties, he submitted to bourgeois concepts of life. Vyevo-
the escape from under the mark was accomplished little by little; there were stops, there were turns
again from class independence to the blocs that connected it with alien social
natural forces, to ideological opportunism. And when the enormous growth of international
much socialism, it seemed, was duewives was finally to strengthen the independent
tic of the proletariat in all areas, then the war broke out with it
an unprecedented crisis of proletarian class consciousness,

The majority of workers, even in the most advanced countries, followed the bourgeoisie
and not for fear, but for conscience, it recognized the national interests of its class.
owls, concluded peace and union with their capitalists in order to jointly exterminate
gates - their own yesterday and tomorrow's comrades. And the thought and feeling passed
Tarmat, turned out to be unreliable and unstable. Why? Because they
were faced with a new, unprecedentedly difficult question and did not have enough
deep, holistic education, in order to solve it firmly and steadily, in our own way,
from the point of view of your tasks and your ideal. Not being able to solve it this way, working
whose class submitted to someone else’s decision, the one that was imposed by the surrounding
Our environment is the capitalist world. <

Give the class a holistic education that inevitably guides the collective
I understand the will and thinking, only the development of independent spiritual culture can
tours. The bourgeois classes had it - this was their strength; she wasn't enough
the proletariat—this is its weakness. If he were completely independent culture
tourno, then in no way, even the most difficult and new promise, the old world could

WIBLNOTEKA NOR

GOS. PUBLIC
ZAZIANOVIM cha. M. Sbeuvliii BI5 -LIOTEKA
and x CHI OI NF au YOU

2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. №t

suggest your thoughts to him, instill in him your moods, corrupt him with your
poison, making it your blind weapon.

The cultural movement of the working class has become detached from the economic and political
cattle Now we see how hard this affected them and the entire historical
the fate of the working class in our era. The same backwardness on the fate of the authorities is doubly reflected
the Russian proletariat by preventing the workers of the advanced bands from supporting
our revolution in its struggle for peace, in the EU struggle for life against enemies,
surrounding them from inside and outside,

Let the working class make the greatest effortsto create what
he lacks so much, let cultural independence be both the next and
henceforth his constant slogan.

The new culture should cover all areas of life and creativity, not cover
superficially and partially, but deeply and throughout their entire breadth. We know: there is
proletarian politics; but how much more is mixed into it at every step
Poisoning it, bourgeois in spirit, politicking! There are friendly
communication and comradeship disciiliina; in them is the soul, in them is the strength of class organization;
but don’t we see how often they are undermined by petty egoism, careerism, competitiveness?
renunciation of personal ambitions, thirst for power on the part of some, blind trust and non- ®
conscious submission on the part of others is a legacy of the old society. him
disunity, the struggle of all against all, the overwhelming power of some and slaves
the great humility of others. Proletarian science has been developing since the time of Marx;
but how little has it yet penetrated into the masses, how long has the religious
new superstitions and other remnants of the dark thoughts of the past; and besides, how much
areas of knowledge are still tainted by criticism and treatment with proletarian labor-
howl point of view; there the truth-seeking worker is forced to simply take what
will be given by the bourgeoisie with great intelligence, and at the same time involuntarily and imperceptibly under -
to turn to their ideological influence, to submit to their structure of thoughts. A pro-
letarian art; but how young and weak these embryos are, how many of them
mixed with imitation of ‘alien forms of the past, as little consciousness of one’s own
a new #birth, its own special ways! }

Yes, comrades, the cultural liberation of the proletariat is necessary, the struggle for
him is urgent; this is a struggle for real and complete class self-esteem
‘division. \

It does not, however, mean a simple break with the entire nerd culture.
old world. And the heir to all her valuable conquests,
spiritual as well as material; he cannot and must not refuse this inheritance.
call out. But they must be mastered so that it does not take possession of the very soul of the proletariat,
howdead capital owns the soul of the bourgeoisie - so that it becomes only a tool
in the hands of the proletariat, In the old culture, everywhere that is useful to it merges
with what is hostile to it, what is capable of darkening and weakening this collective
consciousness. Since this is so, the proletariat must learn to accurately ‘grasp everything’
harmful and alien to itself in the heritage of the past, destroying this side of it with its worthless
crazy criticism. Criticism fully achieves its goal when it points out
the best instead of the worst; and therefore it must be based on independent
creativity of the proletariat. Thus, cultural independence is the only
new path and to the complete conquest of the spiritual treasures accumulated so far
humanity.

We see: the work ahead is enormous, the difficulties and obstacles are enormous.
on the path of the cause to which we call our comrades. But not for easy tasks
The proletariat came into the world. And we believe: its collective strength lies in its mighty
With growth and self-organization, he will overcome everything, achieve everything.

p Long live Proletarian Culture, the great instrument of victory of the World

Socialism!
Editorial.
mt PROPETARIAN CULTURE. 3.

Under. banner of "Proletkult".

In one of his program speeches, Comrade. Lenin, giving the bourgeoisie and the Mensheviks
give us a worthy rebuke about their caustic attacks on the “rally”,
with his characteristic persuasiveness and force, he declares that among the masses, just
“b) having overcome an unprecedented weight, the development of new foundations of labor discipline is only
It's still starting. This process is long and slow. "The closer we get
in the complete military suppression of the bourgeoisie, the more dangerous the elements become for us
petty-bourgeois anarchy. We must defeat this element, and we will defeat it
Dim."

One of the conditions for this victory is undoubtedly the promotion of the foundations of social
‘alistic worldview, the development of elements of proletarian culture and
unification of their entire harmonious system. New science, art,
literature, morality, born in labor comradely unity, in a word,
new proletarianswhat culture, conceived in the ranks of the industrial proletariat,
organizes a new person with his new system of feelings and moods; she's uprooted
will tear out the remaining heritage of the bourgeois world; and then we will defeat the dangerous
revolution the element of petty-bourgeois anarchy. Alas, many comrades think and
are unshakably confident that they are right, that the development of questions of the proletarian
culture is an unnecessary idea and even harmful at the moment,

They reason like this. We proclaimed a socialist republic and dictatorship
tour of the proletariat, but we have not yet been able to organize the new society on new
beginnings. Political passions bubble within the classes, like the tainted lava of a vul-
kana, ready to destroy nature and villages at the foot of the mountain. 'Anxious tormentor-
We are living through these days: the entire bourgeois world in its animal horror of the
the last rasilata wants to strangle the proletarian revolution so that its flame
did not spread to other countries and it engulfed the entire
Europe, the whole world.

In such politically troubled times, dealing with issues of proletarian
culture is downright criminal - this means moving away from direct struggle.
Work in the cultural and educational department of a trade union or even
in the People's Commissarnate of Education means to engage in petty secondary
no work. They look at these workers with a rusty smile and sad regret.
nicknamed as “comrades lost to the party.”

What a deep delusion! What a profound misunderstanding of the connection between poly-
tic struggle and cultural movement of the proletariat! What kind of culturetreger-
Russian attitude to the unfolding spiritual demands and forces of the broad masses
working class!

The proletariat, despite all the colossal political and economic
difficulties among which he has to live and fight for his political
dominance, poses and debates questions about cultural and educational work in
their many meetings. This fact alone clearly shows
that issues of proletarian culture are not a product ofan active and idle mind, and put forward
overwhelmed by life itself, they demand permission, they demand an answer. And there is no power that
I could take them off the daily queue.

On the contrary, it may happen that in the future, and even very near, we will
opponents of Proletkult will have to note with belated regret that
that they overlooked the new form of the labor movement and found themselves not in the thick of the
res of the proletarian movement, but at some respectable distance from it.

Together with Comrade Lenin, we are well aware that at this moment of one
propaganda of proletarian culture. as the basis of majestic and beautiful
future life, you can’t get by. To resolve the issues facing us, we have many
numerical complex questions, other means are needed. But ignore the tasks
put forward by Proletkult, and in general look at this new revolution in the throes of
born workers' organization from above, with a self-satisfied consciousness of its superiority
rising means not seeing much, not understanding much, and not even hearing

1*
4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. t

Lenin’s warning words: “The closer we go to complete military suppression
to the bourgeoisie, the more dangerous is the element of petty-bourgeois anarchy.”

In order to conquer this element and finally break the power of the pacified bourgeoisie

'Asia, we need to defeat this bourgeoisie not only physically, by means of armored cars, bullet-
metas and enthusiasm of the revolutionary masses of the people, but also spiritually, freed from
its ideological yoke, creating its own new culture, more harmonious and holistic. Without
This makes our victory not lasting. The final outcome of the revolution will depend
within the limits of the random moods of the proletariat, agitated by the petty drills
quaz element.

Until now we have considered the labor movement as a political movement
and economic. Two mighty streams merged into one stormy river, which
its rapidly destructive course undermined the strongholds of the bourgeois
world, casting them into the merciless abyss of water. But these two forms work
the movement, of course, is not limited to, Society in its historicalki inevitable
movement viered one culture replaces another; and the struggling classes, as components
ny elements of this society develop and modify the forms of their struggle
and forms of their organization. Modern parliamentary struggle, integral and
inevitable affiliation of modern capitalist society, was
unthinkable in the Middle Ages, within the framework of a feudal economy. Also the organization
trophy unions based on production, and not on professions, could be born.
only at the highest levels of the development of capital, and not during the period of its cervonachale
accumulation, when the orthonic connection of individual professions was not so obvious,
as now, during the period of the hegemony of financial capital over industrial
U\alom. More. The proletarmat not only modifies the forms of its movement,
but also creates completely new ones; such is the cultural-enlightenment movement
tel. In its revolutionary creative impulse it overturns and overthrows
into the abyss all the idols and truths of the old world. It does not cancel the political and economic
mic struggle, but puts it on a new, firmer and more durable basis; social
stical worldview.

At the very beginning of the struggle for their economic liberation, the proletariat realized
that this struggle can be crowned with success only with certain political freedoms
lah, which the bourgeoisie does not want to give him; and the political struggle begins. But
parliamentary leaders, sincerely defending the interests of the working class, in the majority
cases, they use methods of political struggle developed by state-sponsored
classes, and thanks to this they often cause significant damage to the proletarian
class politics, the Volshchinstvo thinks, for example, that politics is itself
a significant side of proletarian life, subject to its own special laws. It
forgets or simply does not understand and does not want to understand that proletarian politics
is an organic, integral part of revolutionary class construction, by force
history broader and earlier than other aspects of activity unfolded, and that developed
regardless of the generalIt cannot have a class-based organizational process.
Political struggle is not a verbal competition of party leaders, not a chess game.
A game in which the outcome depends on the dexterity and experience of the players.

A brilliant proof of this is the world catastrophe—war,
revolutionized the economic, social and political life of the whole world,
dividing the proletariat into two hostile camps. The point here, of course, is not treason
conscious and vile and not in powerlessness in the political struggle, but mainly
and above all in the certain structure of consciousness and feelings of the leaders and masses born in
bourgeois world and those brought up on its culture. This bourgeois system of ours
thoughts and moods greatly interfere with us now, at the moment of creative
period in the revolution. The period of withdrawal and Ltulemet is relegated to the back clan, and the creation
tion of labor unity and discipline, so necessary for us at the moment of respite
and defense, when the imperialists of all countries aim to strangle the Russian fly-
riat, the petty bourgeois element is in the way. And it is quite natural that the working class
puts forward a new form of struggle and organization, preparing to strike the bourgeois world
into the very heart, freeing oneself from the shackles of its individualistic and anarchic
culture.

Slowly but surely the Red Banner of Proletkult is unfurling.
t PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 5

UFO is for Soviet power, he is naturally for proletarian culture and “Pro-
letkult".

Proletarian culture, revolutionary, imbued with creative solidarity
ity, strictly monistic, will merge the interests of individuals with conscious
interests of the class leading to a universal culture. This trend needs
develop by actively interfering in the spontaneous process and not relying on Russian
“maybe”, so characteristic of us. And with this work we will help overcome the current
moment, which in a few words, but with terrible clarity, characterized

Comrade Denin, saying: “Ordinary representatives of the working and exploited masses
focused all their thoughts on breathing, straightening up, turning around,
take offthe closest connections of life, which the overthrown exploiters did not allow them to take -
tori. After all, the salvation of the revolution does not lie in a fair division of the “nearest benefits of life”,
not in the Christian-consumer communism that the book talks about
“The Grandfather of the Holy Apostles”, and in the correct organization of production on the basis of
excluding all oppression and all exploitation.” ‹

The struggle between two spiritual cultures is inevitable; and without the victory of the proletarian culture
The implementation of socialism to its fullest extent is impossible.

This process is not new, the bourgeoisie of the times of the Great French Revolution,
concentrating her money on the feudal system and culture of the Middle Ages, she hurried
lay the foundations of their future culture and formulated them in their “Great
Encyclocedini" or explanatory dictionary of sciences, arts and industrial activities
tiy. Then this task was completed by the advanced thinkers of that era, d’Alembert,
Diderot and others, Now history has placed a similar task on the shoulders of the flying
riat, and he must, inevitably must resolve it in our time.

After the revolution of 1905, in connection with the idea of ​​leadership of the liberal bourgeoisie
juisie political struggle against the autocracy, all kinds of opportunists pre-
increased the importance of parliamentary and legal methods of struggle, as more militant
ethological and psychology of the bourgeoisie; then they finally turned out to be incapable
understand WHAT is the basis of the social democratic party, the scientific socialist world-
a view that is much broader not only than issues of tactics and organization, but also
programs, since the socialist consciousness of the working class covers not
only the direct struggle in the field of politics and economics, but also its entire
life.

In that distant time, when we dreamed of overthrowing the autocracy and weakly
believed in the possibility of a bourgeois Constituent Assembly, it was permissible,
to a certain extent, of course, - with apparently sufficient reason to dismiss
issues of proletarian culture. Then it was still permissible not to understand
that on the basis of political struggle alone, to actively create a revolutiononnaya
social democracy is impossible, that it must appear as a result of historical
inevitable internal development of the working class, that a conscious and
The number work is to identify and develop proletarian culture. Tetser
ke, when we stand on the threshold of a socialist revolution around the globe,
contemptuous attitude towards the issue raised and directing all one’s attention
niya exclusively chavovio-combat pnarah borders on betrayal of the proletariat
And his Soviet power.

The working class in a modern historical moment full of tragedy and beauty
acts not only as a fighter for power, for his dictatorship, but also as a revolutionary -
a great creator of human culture, the basis of a new society, the “state of the future.”

and Jaurès, the great parliamentary tribune, castigating bourgeois France
in one of his inspired parliamentary speeches, he described the new
The task of the proletariat: “In my opinion, the hour is approaching when the revolutionary
The socialist proletariat must master the organized doctrine of all-
love and life. The revolutionary bourgeoisie created an e”cyclopedia, and so do we
we need a new encyclopedia, infinitely broader and bolder, proletarian.
We need to reconsider the movement of human thought. We need to take everything scientific
movement, to give the main results into the hands of the proletariat, this class,
Who wants to live a full life and illuminate the universe with bright light, where the rays
6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. t

individual thoughts will be drowned in the powerful dawn of social life. This one is alive.
the organization of the socialist encyclopedia will be one of the highest tasks, which
tomorrow will impose on our party and humanity.”
I would say: this hour has struck, and the highest task has been entrusted to the proletariat.
Comrades! Stand together under the Red Banner of Proletkult. at

The cultural and educational task of the proletariat falls into two parts:
purely educational and revolutionary creative.

The working class, first of all, needs to master the culture of capitalism.
the world and take something from itknowledge, without which it is impossible to move forward
and from which he was removed by the ruling classes. For this there must be
public education was reorganized accordingly, the care of which
on a national scale, without distinction between groups of revolutionary people, lie
Pelikom at the People's Commissarnate of Education.

Secondly, the proletariat needs to awaken creative self-making
in its broad masses, to collect and unite all the elements of working-class thought and
hicks that are now making their way out like young spring grass.

_ This problem can best be resolved and can be solved most quickly by Proletkult.

To do this, he must be free from all restrictions on the scope and ideological
the work conditions that fall on government officials, thanks to
coalition with the peasant masses, whose leaders are wavering, seeking salvation in
petty bourgeois element,

He must be free from those petty-bourgeois elements of artisans,
employees and people of free professions, elov, philistines, who, according to
draft Constitution (“Izvestia Ts.I.K.” dated 15 U) are given access to the Councils in the knowledge
in significant numbers and are already talking about compulsory education in schools

‘To the slaughter of God.

And by the very essence of their social nature, allies in the dictatorship
are unable to understand the new spiritual culture of the working class. In government
organizations they will always impose their petty-bourgeois. imprint.

The culture of the fighting proletariat is a sharply isolated culture, a class
owl. It requires unity not only of thought, but of will and action. And quite right
A\ Lunacharsky, when he in his brochure “Class Culture and General Humanity”
cheskaya" persistently emphasizes that, along with the creation of a whole for the proletariat
a number of institutions for preschool education and out-of-school education need
pay great attention to the clear truth that even the best mental
new enlightenment only influences the will to a significant extent, sat down next to him
there is no organization of the life of feeling.

And this onepersonalization of the life of feeling is possible only ‘on the ground, in the very depths of
of the working masses, regardless of those farms of ortanization that are predestined
by state authorities in the interests of the integrity of the state body.
Proletarian culture can develop only in conditions of complete self-military
of the proletariat, beyond any decree.

"Proletkult", as a new form of the labor movement, does not run counter to the pre-
going, but complements them. He bears the state apparatus of Soviet power
all the great experience of the proletarian masses, so that everything valuable from it can be consolidated
drink within the framework of the state, as the basis of future life.

Who clearly understands what it means to recycle and combine in new forms
the entire experience of humanity or, as C. Marquet formulated, to change the whole world, that
must go together with Proletkult to support the workers and peasants:
Soviet power and finally defeat the old world not only physically, but
and spiritually, in order to overcome the petty bourgeois element of anarchy,

Without abandoning his attack on the bourgeoisie from political, professional
in t PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 7

plentiful and cooperative fortifications, smashing the bourgeois razh-material

culture, it is necessary to strike from the new side occupied by Proletkult,
The new task created a new form of struggle and organization of the working class.
Comrades! Stand together under the Red Banner of Proletkult.

Valeryan Polyansky.

"Proletkult" is an organization of proletarian
sated activity.

"Proletkult" has existed for such a long time, its work is just getting better,
but voices are already being heard against the existence of this ortavization, and they are speaking out
doubts about the feasibility and necessity of its work. Around Proletkult
there is a struggle going on. There is controversy about him. They deny it or do not admit it. They don't believe in him.

But you just have to listen out of the corner of your ear to these admonitions and negations in order
make sure that the deniers of Proletkult are completely unfamiliar with these tasks,
ilans, hopes and possibilities. Most of the objectionth against existence
development of "Proletkult" is precisely based on an elementary acquaintance with
interpreted question.

The category of such objections includes the often heard phrase: why exist?
to promote “Proletkult” with its concerns about the proletarian school, literature, science,
when these tasks are performed by both the Commissariat of Enlightenment and countless cultural
tour and educational Soviet organizations.

This argument concerns only the formal, external side of the issue, completely
without really touching on the substance of the matter. Yes, of course, “Proletkull” works and will
work in the same field of education, in school, literary, scientific,

in the theater, etc., but its approach to business, its methods, its tasks are significantly different.

differ from the method of cultural and educational organizations and departments of all kinds,

Leaving aside a complete and detailed description of the tasks of Proletkult
(06 the reader will find information on further pages of our magazine),
I will point out one of the typical features of his method. "Proletkult" strives to iro-
awaken proletarian creativity in the scientific and artistic fields and help it
identification; he wants to protect and protect those creative sprouts of a new culture that
have already broken through the thickness of the old bourgeois cultural stratification. Creativity
He places the creative initiative of the masses at the basis of his activities.

In this sense, it must be said that proletarian creativity attracts especially
new, exclusive attention "Proletkulga". and he puts creativity in
the basis of your work. The initiative of the masses in the field of creating new cultural
values will be the key to the strength of the new proletarian culture,

Of course, the expression “Iroletarian culture” should not be understood at all
in the narrow sense that opponents of Proletkult assign to it. We
We don’t think at all that proletarian culture, art or science are necessarily
are the result of the creative work of only proletarians. It's normal and 60-
absolutely. a false interpretation is completely analogous to what is no longer shared by anyone
misconceptionas if political and sociolotic proletarian ideology
will meet the tasks of the proletariat only if it matures in the mind
workers. As an ideology of the working class, socialism was created by people from
bourgeois class, who took the side of the proletariat, so in the creation of a new
proletarian culture, prominent work can be done by representatives of other
these classes who accepted the ideology of the working masses.

Approaching cultural work as creative and independent work,
“Proletkult” carries out its activities in completely different, special ways,
What do cultural and educational organizations do, for example, in the field of literature:
8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No.:

%
school departments, etc.? They introduce the literary results of past centuries.
well, they illuminate (maybe even from a class-based point of view)
evolution of foreign literature, they provide sociological and artistic
analysis of modern literary works. “Pro-
letkult". He strives to find and unite those writers, mainly
from among the proletariat, who themselves create in the field of fine literature in the spirit
new socialist culture. We must try now to create a normal
conditions for artistic creativity and not allow those weak who can perish

perhaps a sprout that can develop, grow stronger and produce exceptional -

values. It is for these purposes that Proletkult will have to create circles of poets
and writers who will develop in friendly joint critical work
to create a true new art. All the most valuable will be published in the form of a collection
nicks and almanacs or published in a magazine. Will arise in this way
a kind of literary studio, that school of creativity that the bourgeois does not know
build.

The same creative cells uniting everyone who wants to give an outcome to their
aspirations to create a new culture will arise for other sectors of activity.
telnosti. The Proletkult school of painting should not be a place where only
teach riceovaniya. Under its roof will unite all those seeking new art, close
whom the proletariat likes in spirit, and those who create it. Heads of the art department
in the arts will look for all workers who devote their leisure hours to drawing
or spends long hours in art galleries. They will help manifest the confusion
to the creative instinct of the masses in the field of painting, sculpture and architecture
tours: \— |.

The theatrical department of Proletkult does not set as its exclusive goal
introduce the working outskirts to exemplary productions of the art theater
or studio. He will not create corpses of professional actors for production
some socialist or revolutionary ideas. This job should be taken
to take over the state, the artistic and educational department of the Council, etc. orta-
nization. "Proletkult" will unite the activities of proletarian drama-
ical circles, encourage working-class playwrights to look for new forms and
other content for the working socialist theatre.

Thus, in all areas of work, Proletkult will make creative
the beginning of amateur performances. He will have to create the conditions for the proletariat
a novelty in which anyone who wants to show their creative instinct in the
science, literature, theater, school, etc. will be able to find full opportunity for their
feel free to create and work in a friendly, comradely environment,

No other organization sets itself this task.

Of course, the creative work of creating a new culture cannot take place
too fast and unable to produce quick and dramatic results.
The members of Proletkult will have many opportunities to gloat over the supposedly incompetent
the fruitfulness and invisibility of the work to create a new culture. Mo this is schadenfreude
will not confuse those who have united around the new ortanization. The creative path is the path
hard,” but it leads to lasting and joyful results.

-Through persistent, methodical work, Proletkult will be able to create new cadres of workers -
niks around you and create those values of the new culture that will be included in the-
witch of centuries.

V. Nerzhentsev.
Lt PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 9

Proletariat and creativity.

Not so long ago, the question of proletarian culture was overwhelmingly
<Your party circles aroused not a trusting attitude towards themselves, but very often
hostile. At this moment of transition, attitudes have changed significantly,
and this issue is increasingly attracting attention, and the number of supporters is growing

new culture. True, the ice is not yet completely broken, but cracks have already appeared,
they make peace and attract proletarian glances with their striking gaping.
And yet it must be admitted that for many, many this question is unclear, and
They question the creation of proletarian culture. Is there a proletarian
Chinese culture? Yes, we answer decisively, its elements are evident. What you call
you are inspired by class consciousness, proletarian ideology, these are the elements of the proletarian
Tara culture. Its development is uneven; but in the field of political and eco-
The nomic influence of the ideology of the working class goes far beyond its borders.
Bulgakov in “Philosophy of Economics” writes: “The number of actual followers
there is much more economic materialism than open and conscious
adherents."

Now, at the transitional moment of the social revolution, when the proletariat is together
© the poorest peasantry came to power, an urgent and pressing
the need for the proletariat to determine its attitude towards such areas as
issues of vocetation and art. None of the sincere supporters of the working class
will not deny the enormous importance of the issue of education. We workers cannot
leave the education of the people at the mercy of bourgeois methods: at the most important moment
This is life when a person’s soul is formed and often remains so for the rest of his life.
life, to give the opportunity to expose it to the influence of our worst gate - the bourgeoisie
know We must develop our own socialist methods of education, which
would be in direct connection with the socialist ideal. Equally important
for the working class there is also art. Art nIt only develops our co-
knowledge, but also organizes the structure of our feelings, helps to eliminate between consciousness
and by feeling such a common discord, bring them into polyu harmony, giving these
strength and irresistible consistency in achieving our aspirations. Except
of this, art enriches us with vast experience, which in practical life
in all the volume and breadth given by the image in literature, a person can
not to survive: in this case, a preliminary perception of art helps
prevent practical contradictions and clashes and thereby strengthen
vast our ability in the fight.

There are two sides to the development and development of proletarian culture. One personal
essentially cultural and educational, which is expressed in the assimilation of bourgeois
inheritance, in determining our proletarian attitude towards it and in assimilating
research on the elements of proletarian culture that have already been created by the labor movement.
The other side must express itself in creating conditions for the manifestation of creativity.
nical forces of the proletariat and in creativity itself. The second task is the most difficult:
This is what we want to talk about in this article. Clarification of the processes of creativity, in part
ness, will help us establish what participation in the development of
proletars®? culture of the intelligentsia adjacent to the working class, and the role
the sum of the proletariat.

The question of creativity is one of the least understood. Bourgeois intellectual
the tendency, taking advantage of this state of affairs, is most willing to hide in this last
his strength and zealously covers himself with all kinds of spells
there is a fog of mysticism in it, which should hinder our penetration into these
protected meadows. The working class will not be stopped by the witchcraft of the latter
mohikon of the bourgeoisie, and he will be able to, with the help of proven weapons -
consciousness - to extract them from the most remote gorges into sunlight and discover
ruminate the nakedness of their false self-conceit. Out of caste and guild interests
these gentlemen create fantastic tales that, the forbidden meadows of creativity,
feetonly to selected natures, priests of art, who enter there in 0e-
10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No.:
/

bald vestments with incense smoke. Creativity is a basic need for everyone
person; it is revealed in overcoming the contradictions that people are faced with
flow into practical life, and the worker primarily in labor when exposed to
on external nature—and in the realm of thought, where the connection of logical
sequence, the Priestly caste of art will immediately ask us a question:
So, in your opinion, there is no difference between a genius and a simple worker? Yes, say
we say, essentially nothing, the difference is only in intensity and in greater or
less sensitivity of the brain apparatus. The tenii themselves did not see it any other way;
It was not for nothing that Goethe defined shadowness as the possession of the ability, intense
attention, and Darwin - patience.

From this point of view, it is clear that the processes of creativity, both in overcoming opposition
the words of everyday work and complicated creativity in various kinds of great
discoveries, inventions and in the artistic field are essentially the same.
The difference can only be in the forms of processes. One-form logical
cultural, which includes scientific discoveries and inventions, and the other is artistic
feminine, which includes art.

‚The flow of scientific creativity processes is based on lotic thought-
movement and goes under the control of consciousness, which is expressed in gathering for post-
given task of the necessary material and bringing it into a logically expedient
new connection. But the matter does not come down entirely to this. Our hemorrhage is not exhausted
consciousness: this is only its bright area, directly accessible to us. Behind her

“there is also a much more extensive, dark side of the psyche - the subconscious,
a vast warehouse of experience, a repository of countless experiences, elusive
of one’s weakness or extreme commonness—experiences vaguely perceived and forgotten
tykh. When consciousness completes the work of accumulating and organizing material,
then, if the discovery is ripe, the subconsciouscomes to the rescue, gets in touch
with the area of consciousness, as if bursting into it with a torrent, fertilizing stream,
from his hidden botatetva, brings in what was missing to solve the problem. Av
the result of this synthesis is, as it were, an unexpected discovery, something new,
to direct the further development of an entire branch of knowledge and thought along new
ways, using new methods. In favor of such a uniquely correct and acceptable interpretation
This position is evidenced by rich scientific material about the life of the subconscious, and
the history of discoveries in their historical limitation, and the possibility of the discovery itself
tia under certain historical conditions. This is what the teachings and teachings say for
nals, their biographical information about their work and research. Poincaré's stories -
tells how he made one discovery in mathematics not at the moment of hard work
according to the calculations, and when I got into the car, thinking about something completely different. On
At first glance this seems like a random discovery. But this is not true. Here it is obvious
only one assumption is permissible: when the intense work of consciousness according to the data
If the question stops, then the work of the subconscious, which occurs in parallel,
continues and goes its own way, even if the consciousness is distracted by completely different tasks.

Many mystical intuitionists tend to view creativity as
as an influx inherent in selected natures who are capable of creating ‘eternal pen-
from nothing by one magical inspiration. This look shows
about great conceit and at the same time about ignorance. All serious research
they talk about creativity about its possibility only as a result of paired work,
after gaining experience. Only through the accumulation of practical and theoretical
With theoretical knowledge one can go towards creativity and discovery. Every act of discovery
or invention is possible after the quantity required for it is sufficient and
appropriate quality of experience’ or material. :

Another form of creativity—in the artistic field—is based on non-
average feelings or, as they say, intuition, and vernes- to support
living connection between consciousness and subconscious; and only ‘already in the final stage, when in
a certain image has clearly and clearly arisen in the imagination, it is controlled and
verified by consciousness whether the image meets the general task and its place
in the destination. Art is primarily imaginative thinking; it
does not prove, but shows, and therefore cannot be based on logical thinking.
uk, if only because almost every more or less complex image concludes
№ t PROLETARIAN CULTURE. s

\
contains in itself such an amount of experience that cannot be covered by the tsamayaya of consciousness -
nia. Therefore, in order for the process of artistic creativity to proceed in the creation
image is normal, the basement experience of the subconscious is constantly necessary
we are an addition. In those cases when the artist is between consciousness and sub-
consciousness, the connection is poorly established or flows unevenly, the product of this creative
quality is art that is less perfect, such as, for example, art
tendentious. An image or a whole system of images in a work is not complete, they
as if immature, they do not contain the proper and necessary conscious
and subconscious experience, welded together with the cement of feeling.
7 If we wanted to draw a conclusion and apply it to Intelligence, let’s say -
penitent to the proletariat, what place it can take in the work of the proletarian
culture, then we would define it this way: the intelligentsia adjacent to us -
pour with us, and if necessary, for us, maybe feel - no. Since the question
is about logical thinking, observation, systematization of experience, intelligence,
who carefully studies the life and surrounding conditions of the worker, may viol
to think for the worker, to correctly outline the path of development of the ideology of the proletariat,
as was done by Marx and a number of other proletarian ideologists. But only
the matter concerns deeper experiences, the area of ​​the worker’s feelings - here the intellect -
Liteni is powerless, so penetration is limited. He can only be reached
what is expressed andlends itself to observation. And both, as we found out,
not enough to complete full artistic expression, Artistic
creative creativity is a process that is predominantly subconscious, controlled
literated by consciousness when it is already revealed; and tsodconsciously has as its basis
io predominantly life, and therefore the literate can almost never have
proletarian. There is no way for an outsider, even the most attentive observer,
the ability to penetrate into experiences that are in the process of subconscious
nogo formation. The worker himself is vaguely aware of the rustling of his soul, and only in
a moment of intense creativity, they perceive in this consciousness bright and clear
images. One can also allow for the depiction of the most imaginative isyscholosis
worker, who, thanks. but the complexity of experiences is more or less accessible
observable and amenable to known accounting; but in order to depict the essence of the pro-
the Tara nature of the advanced layer of workers must be experienced. They can tell us
on the ability of artists. reincarnate. Yes, great artists have this ka-
quality is highly developed; but a careful study of it shows that it has changed -
susceptibility is limited by the limits of the experiment; depends on the strength and talent of the artist
only the wealth of its combinations.

A great artist can vividly and powerfully depict the mud of a stranger to him

^ class within reach of him observing and studying, but say something
new, emerging there, and at the same time technical, capable of developing into a general
meaningful, he couldn't.

By delimiting the role of the intelligentsia in the creativity of proletarian culture, we
We don’t want to be understood according to the simplified method of Lermontov’s valet
ner, who divided the world into two halves: one is the master, and the other is the whole

_ naya bastard. This method must be banished and turned away. But we must admit

_ schmuck those complex, spinning vortices and storms of feelings that the worker experiences,
it is better to portray him himself than to a stranger, even one who is close and sympathetic.
to the present observer. .

This is what we're talking about hereonly about equal quantities that stand in the same row
avant-garde, but different class groupings by origin. Ociortu-
a worker can also be a nist, expressing the sentiments and aspirations of the backward,
semi-proletarian masses who have not yet freed themselves from petty-bourgeoisism.. Such
a worker, no matter how talented he may be, will not be an exponent of the emerging shadows
dents of the path of development in the advanced avant-garde of the working class, and therefore
‚will not be able to portray them @ artistically.

Moving on to the conclusion, we will say: in the process of solving the question of creativity
In the future, the proletariat must use the already tested weapons with which it conquered
political and economic leanings of the bourgeoisie; this weapon is orthachizoic
12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. t

consciousness, welded by discipline with a reserve of necessary knowledge; the same
With our weapons the proletariat will conquer the last refuge of the bourgeois intelligentsia.
tendencies - creativity and will dispel the suffocating gases of mysticism that have accumulated around it
pizma. Through a persistent, consistent path of expanding experience, accumulating
knowledge, spiritual self-discipline - to creativity.

s Fedor Kalinin.

What is proletarian poetry?

Nroletarian poetry is, first of all, poetry, a certain kind of art
<your, f

There is no poetry - just like there is no art in general - where there are no real images. If
present the multiplication table or the laws of physics in any smooth and finished way
poems, this will not be poetry, because ‘abstract concepts are not living
images.

There is no poetry, as well as art in general, also where there is no harmony in composition.
taiii images, mutual correspondence and connections between them, what is called
organization." If, for example, the drawn figures are not related to each other
together with Ilana, or if the eyes are placed randomly, randomly, then this is not a car-
tina, not painting,

A few months ago a newspaper published poems that
started like this: $.

"War without victory, war without end"
The merchant's pockets are filled with iridescence.

\ The blood of the dead has nothing to do with him, -
You just have to end with a profitthere is a war.
Industrialist too, fill your pocket,
Deliberately deceives workers...>
and,

It was a crime on the part of the editors to publish such poems - a crime.
and against both the reader and the author, somehow sincere, honest
a worker who simply did not know what poetry was, There are either no living people here at all
images (“it is necessary to end the war with profit”, “the industrialist deliberately introduces
to deceive the workers"), or they are in sharp contradiction with each other (pockets "cri-
chat”, and even “in rapture”). This is, as it were, a specially pressed example of something that
and the opposite of artistry.

We must know and remember: art is the organization of living images; poetry—
organization of living images in verbal form.

TE

The beginning of poetry lies in the same place as the beginning of human speech in general.

The screams that involuntarily escaped from primitive people during their work
great efforts, labor cries, were the germ of words, the first designation:
a natural and understandable designation for all those actions in which they
arose. And the same labor cries became the embryo of the labor pestilence.

It was not mere fun or entertainment. In common work she united
took away the efforts of workers, gave them harmony, rhythmic correctness
and connectivity. It was, therefore, a means of organizing collective
uspl. It retains this meaning even now;

In the fighting song, which developed later, the organizational meaning appears with
a different shade. It was usually sung before a battle and created unity for it
№ t PROLETARIAN CULTURE. | 13

mood, the connection of collective feeling, the basic ‘condition for a friendly, harmonious
actions in battle. This is, so to speak, the preliminary organization of the forces of the collective
for the difficult task ahead of him.

`\/ The second root of poetry is liy; he is also the beginning of knowledge in general,

‘Originally words denoted human actions; but only these
In other words, people could communicate to each other 0) phenomena and actions of external
nature, its elemental forces. Thus, in every way, even the most elementary
nom racesin a story or description, nature was inevitably humanized; was there any talk
about an animal, about a tree, about the sun or the month, about a river or stream, everywhere it turned out like this,
as if it were about a person; the sun “goes” across the sky, in the morning “rises”, in the evening
“goes to sleep”, in winter “gets sick, loses weight”, in spring “gets well”, etc. It's not-
the free transfer of concepts from human to elemental is called “basic
metaphor." Without it, thinking would not be able to begin its work on the environment.
a non-human world, knowledge would not have been created. `

Later, thinking little by little learned the differences between self-inflicted and external
environment, was freed from the main metaphor, especially after developing
There were names for things. But in essence, even now it is still far from completely from it
free. Even the word “world” itself is one of its remnants, because of what it means,
actually, a community, a collective of people. And in poetry the role of the main metaphor is everything
time was and remains enormous; humanization of nature - the main poetic
reception

So, initially there was no fiction in the myth. When father passed on
children what he himself knew from experience about the changing fate of the sun in its annual cycle,
this primitive astronomical lecture inevitably took the form of a story about
the adventures of a powerful and kind man in the fight against hostile forces,
who either retreat in front of him, or inflict defeats and wounds on him, weaken him -
wailing, etc. From here some poetic myth developed,
The Babylonians talk about the hero Gilgamesh, and the Greeks talk about Hercules. If a person reported
to another, less experienced, that dead bodies harm living people, give rise to
diseases leading to weakness and even death, the result was a story about the evil dead,
9b their enmity towards the living is what later created the myth of vampires
or ghouls. At that time, this was the only possible form of knowledge transfer to
society. z `

Poetry, prose, science, all this was inseparably merged in an indefinite
birth, which was the religious myth. But its life meaning, its meaning
for society pseems quite definite: this, again, is an instrument of organiza-
nization of people's social and labor life. Z

Why is people's knowledge about collected and passed on over generations? them sa-
Mich, about life, about nature? In order to comply with this knowledge, the corresponding
It’s important to guide and connect them, in general, to practically velvet their foundations
tic efforts of people. The primary solar myth - a description of the changing times
then—gave the necessary guidelines for the cycle of agricultural work
boat, and also for hunting, fishing, for all those whose organization relies
to the systematic distribution of labor according to the seasons, to “orientation in time.”
The myth of the dead gave instructions to guide hygienic measures to remove
carrying them to workers, nair., burying them deep enough, away from dwellings,
etc. Primitive, poetic knowledge played such a role in the practice of that time
the same organizing role as the latest exact sciences in modern production.

1.

Has the vital meaning of poetry changed since then?

Let us remember what the poems of Homer and Hesiod were for ancient Greece: important
educational means. What is education? This is the main ‘orthaniza-
ational work introducing new members into society,

The human larva is processed and prepared in this direction -
tions in order to become a suitable living link in the system of public relations - in order
14 and PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. t
*O
take your place and do your job in the general social process. Evocation
organizes the human collective in the same way as teaching formation, diet
organizes an army using combat techniques and tactics. |

Our theorists, who consider art, according to the aristocratic and part
bourgeois tradition; “decoration of life”, a kind of luxury in it, not
and they know to what extent they contradict themselves when at the same time they admit
behind art is educational, i.e. namely’ practical orthaniza-
reading.

There are two bourgeois theories - "the purity of art" and "civil"
lawsuitsstva". The first asserts that art cannot be an end for itself,
must be free from the interests and aspirations of the practical struggle of human
quality, the Second believes that it is up to it to implement progressive trends
this 'struggle. 068 theories we can discard when we explore what art is
actually in the life of mankind. It orthogonizes her powers completely independently
depending on whether he sets himself civic tasks or not, there is no need to impose
calling them to art will be a constraint for it, unnecessary and harmful to
artistry; the artist is able to organize living images most coherently
He is committed when he does it freely, without coercion or direction. But it’s not lazy and
prohibit art from taking on political, social and militant motives; its contents
rie - all life, without restrictions and prohibitions.

The purest area of poetry seems to be lyricism, the art of personal
moods, feelings. It would seem who and what it can socially
organize? , s ;

If the lyrics expressed only the artist’s personal experiences and no one else’s
more than that, it would not have been understandable or interesting to anyone except him - it would not have been
would be art. The thing that washed her away is that she reproduces a common one for many different
people are birds of mood, they have a similar and related connection of mental movements.
By understanding and clarifying this commonality to people, the poet invisibly unites and unites them.
one network of mutual understanding in the sphere of feeling by the “sympathy” that he
excites everyone, And at the same time, the poet educates this side of their soul
in the same direction for them, which deepens and expands their spiritual closeness
anger, the strength of their troupe, class, social connections. And this prepares
and develops the possibility of coherent, coordinated actions, i.e. and here, like
was previously noted about the fight song, this is about some pre-waffle
any organization of the forces of the collective for any manifestations of its common
life, common struggle. % |

And that poetry that depicts and describes life, kaz, dramaa-foman,
that according to its ortanizing value. is similar to science and serves to guide
stavva, on the basis of the previous experience, in the structure of mutual relations between people.
Thus, epic poems provide vivid images of mass actions, the connections in them between
"teroi" or leaders and the "crowd" that follows them, struggle and reconciliation
collective popular forces, etc. Most novels, and specifically the romantic
their side, present resolution using specific examples of the same thing
type I’ll ask: both from male and female individualities, under different conditions -
viyah; elementary ortanizations are formed in the form of a family; and then - how in general
there occurs an adaptation of different individuals to the people around them, to their co-
social environment. Drama gives action to organizational conflicts and their resolution.
opinions, etc. d. In our time, poetry, and fiction in general, at least
for the urban population is hardly the most common and significant mean-
quality of education, 1.-e. introducing the individual into the system of social connections.

THAT.

Modern society is divided into classes. These are collectives, disconnected
different by many life contradictions, and therefore orthogonalized separately
different ways, one having lived the other: Naturally, their orthanization
new tools, i.e. ideologies, are different, separate, in many ways not only do not agree
m I: PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 15

they fuss, but are directly incompatible with each other. This also applies to poetry; in society
class it is also class: landowner, peasant, bourgeois,
proletarian.

This, of course, should not be understood in the sense that poetry will overflow
interests of one or another class: this sometimes happens, but comparatively rarely, specially
cially in political, in civil poetry. In general, her class character-
ter lies much deeper. It lies in the fact that the poet stands at the point
vision of a certain class, looks at the world through its eyes, thinks and feels precisely
just like this class, but it is characteristic of its social nature. Under the author-
the author is hiding his identityteam, author-class; and poetry is part of it
self-awareness,

The author-personality, perhaps, does not think about it at all, perhaps at all

does not suspect this, In the works themselves there is often no direct indication

knowledge of their class source, no mention of it. Here, for example, are the lyrics
Photo. This beautiful poetry that gracefully connects the manifestations of life
nature with the refined spiritual movements of the poet himself, it seems from the first
Rag is considered an example of “pure art” alien to any social background.
And yet, even before there was Marxism in Russia, there were people who replaced
They thought that this was “lordly” poetry. “Landlord”, i.e., landowner, generated by the mood
nies, conditions, forms of life and thought of a certain estate-class on-
our country. And this is true.

That deep, complete renunciation from material, economic,
prosaic concerns; which Fota's lyrics breathe was only possible for
truly lordly, landowner elements, increasingly separating the vineyard from production
stva. Even the bourgeoisie that was developing at that time, preoccupied with profit and competition,
tion, imbued with a business atmosphere, could not so cultivate a refined
nal sensations and feelings; and besides, the class is more urban, she was not
capable of understanding and perceiving nature so sensitively, like rural
landowners. And it is not difficult to see that this poetry was supposed to
in fact, they are an organizing force for the landowner class-klaes,
which was already becoming obsolete then, but, of course, did not want to leave the historical stage
He vigorously defended his interests. It not only united representatives
lordship in a certain generality of sentiments, but at the same time indirectly opposed to
shared them with the rest of society, thus strengthening their cohesion. She
strengthened in them the consciousness of their spiritual superiority over other layers
society and, therefore, the right to a privileged position; she seems
told them: “we are such aesthetic, sublime creatures, how tender and refined we are.”
chenna uour souls, how noble is our culture.” And from here it naturally followed
the desire to firmly and amicably defend this culture, that is, obviously, its main
conditions, material wealth and current situation.

In a class society, poetry cannot be outside the class; but ‘it doesn’t follow from this
it means that in each given case it belongs to one specific class.
In Nekrasov’s ethos, there is also an ardent defense of the interests of the peasantry on the basis
deep sympathetic understanding of this life, and vivid expression. aspirations,
thoughts, feelings developing, but constrained by the old system in this development of the state
the birthplace of the intelligentsia, to which Nekrasov belonged in his activities,
and undoubted remnants of the psychology of the landowner class from which he came. came out.
This is poetry of my own class. This happens in our time, for the most part.
democratic poetry: peasant-intellectual, worker-peasant, ra-
boce-peasant-intellectual; it would be easy to show on many of our
the newest poets from the people.

The prolotarts needs, of course, not such a thing, but a purely class proletarian
poetry.

U.
The character of proletarian poetry is determined by the basic conditions of life

Viations of the working class itself: its position in production, its type of ortani-
nation, by historical “fate.
=

76 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. t

The proletariat is a class “uuud, exploited, struggling, developing
tsiyeya. This is a class that is concentrated in masses in cities and which is characterized by
a friendly form of cooperation. All these features are inevitably reflected in
This is in the collective consciousness—in ideology, and therefore in his poetry. But
They do not all single out proletarian poetry in the same way, separate it from
any other. Labor, exile by the ruling classes, struggle
against it, the desire for progress—do these features distinguish the proletariat from the poor?
the very peasantry, from the lower strata of the working intelligentsia? Obviously not;
they are also characteristic of these Georgians, they share them with the working class.These groups
before the proletariat, Motley created his poetry, and in his first shats
on the path of poetic creativity, he naturally joins them. He'll be recognized here
still have an indefinitely class character: the poetry of revolutionary-democratic
sky. Here, for example, is a beautiful song written by a young worker Alexei Gmy-
roar, who died several years ago on the catourt.

®
SCARLET.

We are going to meet Solts. We're coming
And we sing a scarlet song to freedom.

Scarlet ringing. it hums above the ground,
Awakening, terrifying; like war.

And calling those who are strong with heart and soul, `
Our song flows powerfully over the earth.

We are going towards the Sun, we are going
And we carry the scarlet banner of freedom.

We painted our banner with the blood of Solitz,
And it burns, defeating the prophetic darkness.

Irene about the fallen banner - black shaft.
It is good and easy to carry our banner.

We are marching under the scarlet banner, we are marching
About the scarlet song, the scarlet solar path.

'Our path is difficult, full of thorns and deaths;
But it is the scarletst of paths.

our path is linear, endless and eternal;
But it is the purest and most direct.

We are few, we are few; but on the way
Millions of fighters will join us to carry

Our burden, our banner, will, blood!
We are crazy, but immortal, like love.

ak down with ke crying and resting at the graves.
Further, further, everyone who fell in love with Solice!

We are going towards the Sun, we are going
And we sing and carry the scarlet banner,

Here, besides the personality of the author, there is nothing that would make this
namely proletarian. She would, like the workers, inspire and consecrate
to call in a revolutionary impulse like former fighters of the advanced intelligentsia -
Narodnaya Volya and peasant fighters for land and freedom. And this is the greatest
part of the old revolutionary poetry, whether it came from the intellectual, peasant-
social or work environment. $
№ t PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 17

Ut;

What significantly distinguishes the proletariat from other democratic elements,
this is his special type of work and cooperation.

The deepest rupture passed through the working nature of man in those days.
exchange when the “brain” is separated from the “working hands”, “management”-—yut “execution”,
when one began to think, decide for others and tell them to do this’,
what he will indicate and how he will indicate. This was the separation of the organizer from the ‘police-
body, the beginning of power—subordination. One person in relation to another became
a supreme being, and a feeling of admiration arose. On this basis the beginning
develop a religious worldview; but before it was not and could not be,
for elemental nature, with its formidable forces, aroused fear of life in man
votive, but not “fear of God”, fear of powerful enemies, but not the thought of qualitative
supreme figures, combined with humility and admiration before them, - without
what religion is not. Authoritarian cooperation as it grows and deepens
permeated the entire consciousness of people with the spirit of authority: all nature was subordinated
rulers-organizers - deities, every body is given a leader - a soul,
it. d.

By its very nature. The work of the ortanizer is, indeed, of the highest quality.
the highest, and the executive - the lowest: one has initiative, consideration,
observation, control, which requires experience, meaning, and intense attention
mania; the other has a mechanical design, for which all this data is not available
What is required is passive discipline, blind obedience. Slave, fortress
to a new peasant, a soldier in the army of the ‘ancient despot’, to reason when carrying out
his actions are useless and even harmful; he is a living instrument, nothing more.

Another gap in the working nature of man is specialization. Everyone has
a specialist with his own task, his own experience, his own special little world: a farmer
knows his field, plow, horse; the blacksmith—his thorn, bellows, hammers; shoemaker - his own
leather, awl, pads; everyone cannot, and then does not want to know someone else's business,
so that the better you can concentrate on your own, the more completely you can master it And yet
this gap deepens due to the separateness and independence of specialized
farms. only in the market of those who meet in the exchange of their goods. There they are mutual-
This connection is finally hidden by the struggle of everyone against. all: buyers
with sellersand the price, sellers among themselves for sale, buyers in exchange for the desired
goods, when they are in short supply. :

This second break in the labor nature gives rise to individualism. Man

insists in thoughts and feelings to oppose himself to other people; he sees
in itself an absolutely separate being, with separate interests, non-
dependent on the social environment in aspirations and actions, independent
creative. The individual, the personal “I” for him is the center of his worldview, his sense of the world
education; the freedom of this “I” is the highest ideal.
Both breaks in the nature of labor pass through the consciousness of the old classes -
that means, through their poetry. Poetry of the era of purely authoritarian—feudalism—
thoroughly imbued with the spirit of authoritarianism; her myths and poems, such as the book
Genesis among the Jews, Iliad and Odyssey among the Greeks, Matabtarata among the Hindus, epics and
“The Tale of Igor’s Campaign” among the Russians reduces the entire course of life, the purpose of its events, to action.
the bodies of gods, heroes, pairs of leaders; lyrics are a vivid example of her psalms Yes-
kind—feels nature as a manifestation of the divine will, imbued with prayer
and humility. Individualism reigns in the poetry of the bourgeois world: there the center
is the personality, its fate, its experiences; poem, novel, drama depict
fuck collisions with the outside world, her relationship to other people and to nature,
her struggle for happiness or career, her creativity, victories, defeats; lyrics also
it all comes down to individual psychology, to mental movements and moods.
nias of an individual: his subjective feeling of nature, ‘his joys, sorrows,
dreams, disappointments, sexual love, with its sufferings and delights - this is
the content of these lyrics.

Proletarian Culture, No. G ‹

=
18 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 1

It should be noted that the poetry of the bourgeois world retains much from the author.
container consciousness, because bourgeois society retains many elements
authoritarian cooperation, power-subordination. In addition, variety
bourgeois groups - capitalists large and small, the highest intelligentsia,
backward and progressive landowners, stock exchangesy speculators, rentiers, etc.,
together with various mixtures and crossings of these gruits, naturally,
gives rise to a variety of forms and contents of their poetry, although the main mud remains
general

unitary enterprise:

In machine production, for the first time, the main fractures coalesce.
vov of labor nature. In it, the “working hands” are not just hands, the worker is the shepherd.
strong-mechanical performer. He is subordinate, but he also controls the "iron"
slave" - a machine. The more complex, the more perfect the machine, the greater the labor involved.
strives for observation and control, for consideration of all parties and the conditions of its work,
to intervene only as necessary in her movements; in case of inevitable
at times her whims and frustrations require a quick understanding of what is happening.
walking, initiative and decisiveness in action. These are all basic and typical
features of orgaliyvsitor’s labor, and with them the requirement of known
knowledge, intelligence, ability for intense attention - properties
organizer But what remains is the direct physical effort, along with the brain
hands work

At the same time, specialization ceases to sharply divide workers -
she switches from them to a car; labor with various machines is mainly
The “organizational” content is very similar. Thanks to this, it is supported
communication and mutual understanding’ when working together, the opportunity to help each other
friend with advice and deed. Here the foundations of the Tdvariatsian
a form of cooperation on which the proletariat then builds all its organizations.

It is characterized by the fact that organizational work is merged with the
nitelsky But both the organizer and the performer here are not separate
ny faces, and hollekiiv. Cases are discussed and decided together, decisions are made together
are busy; everyone participates in the development of the collective will and its implementation.
Here, organization is achieved not by power, but by subordination; instead of them, comrades
comradely initiative and leadership from ‘everyone, comradely discipline
from the outside. every.

The germs of comradeshipthere were early collaborations”; but in our epoch
it becomes widespread for the first time and acts as the main element of organization
for the whole class. It deepens as higher technology develops, it expands
expands as the proletarian masses gather in cities, as they concentrate
tions in giant enterprises.

This gathering of the proletariat in cities and factories is profound and complex.
new influence on his psyche. It will help develop the consciousness that in work,
in the fight against the elements and life, the individual is only a link in a great chain and, taken
separately, would be a completely powerless toy of external forces, non-vital
its own piece of tissue, cut from a powerful organism. The personal "I" is reduced
to its actual size and proper place.

But this same gathering in cities and factories is associated with a very painful
burst from nature. It appears to the proletariat as a force of production, and not as
source of a variety of live impressions. Meanwhile, joys and entertainment
Toroda life gives little, not as much as for the ruling classes; and the stronger
This is a desire for living nature, even turning into longing for it. This is lakzhe
one of the motives of his dissatisfaction, his struggle for new forms of life.

Comradely cooperation is not a ready-made form, it is in development,
everywhere on different stages; and comradely consciousness follows him, nevertheless
It is necessary to lag behind him. This is the main line of the path of the proletariat; but she's far away
still from completion even in the most advanced countries. Completion will be given
№ t PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 19

in socialism, which is nothing more than the comradely organization of all life
society.

USH. K

The spirit of authority, the spirit of individualism, the spirit of camaraderie—three successive
body bird of culture. ‘Proletarian’ tsoeviya belongs to the third, highest
phase.

The spirit of authority is alien to her, she cannot help but be hostile to it. Proletariat—
the class is subordinate, but it fights against this subordination. Here are the verses taken
from a workers' newspaper and dedicated to one of the political leaders of the proletariat:

"Rasthe entire bourgeois system is shaken to its core,
And the world, captured by a beautifully bold risk)
Excitedly watching the game,

To applaud when you win close.
The world is waiting for the end so that it can triumph
The fall of rotten, outdated buildings,
To start a new era of free days

And to crown for centuries all the victorious shadows.”

Whether it was a worker or a non-worker who wrote this, it is clear that the entire basic structure of feelings and
the thoughts here are not proletarian. The labor and struggling collective cannot help but
value their leaders-organizers, but precisely as exponents of common tasks,
the general will of the collective itself, as representatives of its common strength. Pretend
the great world drama of our era, as a risky gambling game, which
skillfully leads shadows against other political players, and the “peace”, i.e.
masses, only “excitedly watches” her, in order to then applaud and crown
to call a winner, this is a purely authoritarian, perhaps even courtly understanding
life. ;

Equally alien to the proletariat is the spirit of individualism, which everywhere places
personal "I".

“I was always proud, I was always rebellious,
Smiling and burning, I drove away the despondency,

It always rang like spring, joyfully boundless,
The night did not frighten the soul with ghosts.

He was always calm, restrained and smart,
Intoxicated by the sun, Tsesni sang to the sun,

I was not afraid of torment for the holy cause

And in an idea bright as on fire, and

And I’m always straight, proud, clear

Walked towards the truth with a cheerful soul, x
Regardless of “difficult”, “hard” or “hard”!
I lived, reveling in the struggle of freedom...” etc. d.

It is no coincidence that the first, title verse of this work, taken also
from a workers' newspaper, borrowed almost entirely from an obviously bourgeois poet,
as well as a considerable share of the images that follow. There is no collective creativity at the core here.
“we” is the old, self-focused and narcissistic “me.” Of course
and this is not proletarian poetry.

The prolotariat is a very young class, and its art is still in its childhood stage.
Even in politics, where ‘him. more experience, millions of proletarians in Germany, An-
clay, America is following the lead of the bourgeoisieuasia; the easier it should be with
proletarian poets. But how should we openly declare: “this is not going to happen?”
Tara policy,” so here the voice of comrade criticism must firmly prevent
guard: “this is not proletarian art.”

Until now, there is still poetry of ‘workers: often, probably in most cases.
teas, is not working’ poetry. It's not about the author, but about the point of view. The poet may not

5%
C
`

20 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. t

and belong economically to the working class; but if he has become deeply accustomed to his

collective life, really and sincerely imbued with his aspirations,

ideals, this way of thinking, rejoices in his joys and suffers his suffering -

nyami, - © catch, merged with him in soul, then he is capable of becoming an artistic figure -

the destroyer of the proletariat, the organizer of its forces and consciousness in poetic form.

Of course, this may not happen often; and in poetry even less than in politics,
The proletariat should count on allies coming from outside.

th
. ‘

TX.

A small poem in prose by a worker-poet and economist.

BEEPING,

When morning beeps sound on the working-class outskirts, this is not at all a call for non-
will. This is the song of the future.

Once upon a time we worked in squalid workshops and started working in the mornings

at different times.

And now in the morning at eight o'clock the beeps sound for a whole million.

A whole million takes the hammer at the same moment.

Our first blows thunder together.

What are the horns singing about?

This is a morning hymn of unity.

(“Poetry of the worker’s blow”, A. Gasteva—I. `Dozorova).

This is lyrics, but not the lyrics of the personal “I”. For the worker, as an individual
news, a beep—of course, a reminder of forced labor is sometimes almost a tool
torture. But for a growing team it’s different. The “subject” of poetry, really
its creator, expressing himself through the poet, is not the same as before, and not the same
dit in life. It's camaraderie.

TO THE COMING.

I shared these songs of close, joyful centuries

In the thick whirlwind of fire-faced, vast cities.

I shared these songs of the golden days to come

In the noise of the fabRick, in the screams of steel, in the angry rustling. belts
I watched as my friend forged gold steel,_

And at that moment the Dawn of the Coming revealed the miraculous face.

I learned that the wisdom of the world is all in this hammer,

In this firm and persistent and confident hand.

The stronger the ringing hammer hits, crushes, forges,
The brighter the joy will shine in the gloomy world.

The faster the drives, gears, etc. move.

The more captivating and brighter our days will shine.

These songs were sung to me by millions of voices,

Millions of blue-blouses, strong, brave blacksmiths,

These songs call a rebellious, imperious, red, clear ringing,
He tells everyone that the long night of dead sleep is over.
These songs are a mighty call to the soul, life and struggle.

This is a proud, angry challenge to an evil, painful fate.

(V. Kirillov, magazine “The Future” No. 1, 1918, Prg.).

The poet's self is on stage, but it is clearly aware of its role and its place;
©but acts in order to point to the real, primary creator
№ t PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 21

of this poetry-collective, on the actual, basic creative force - the organ-
inferior labor. And a poet. does not stop at the stage of purely combat, shock-
revolutionary consciousness of the proletariat, as is the case with most of the current
them aspiring working poets. It alone will not give proletarian poetry, because
The spirit of military camaraderie is also characteristic of soldiers. The poet goes further and deeper, expanding
covers the cultural and labor consciousness of his class: “What. more sonorous
the hammer will beat, crush; forge, the more quickly the drives will move,
“thorns...” - the sooner the Dawn comes, the closer the kingdom of the Future. In battles—
victory over external enemies; but only in the development of labor, in the development of pro-
production—the implementation of a social ideal.

Xx.

The researcher needs a real point of support. In dire straits
we, then still a few propagandists of the idea of proletarian art, were
“you, while we had to talk about what we haven’t been able to do yet in practice
find something about which we could firmly and confidently say: “here, this is vileother pro-
Letarian art; You can judge by this example, you can compare with this.”
And I cannot help but cite the work that for me personally was first
served as such a reference point.

In the newspaper “Pravda” or in one of its transformations for 1913 there was our
a small poem by Samobytnik.

TO A NEW COMRADE.

A whirlwind of spinning wheels,
Dance of crazy belts...
Hey, comrade, don't be shy!
Let the steel chaos hum
Let them take a sea of tears,
Much has been destroyed from it, -
Don't be timid!
You came from a peaceful background, “
Bright rivers and fields. ["
Hey, comrade, don't be shy!
Here the boundless flowed,
The impossible has come true...
At the dawn of the days to come—
Don't be timid!
Our happiness. rose
Along the tops of gray ridges...

*’ In the kingdom of sorrow and shadows
The powerful sun lit up,
And it burns even more intensely, -
Don't be timid!
Like a stone colossus
Stand by the crazy belts...
Let the noise of the wheels be louder
Another link is woven into the chain,
The army closed like a hundred,—
Don't be timid!

The point is not in the artistry of the work: there is an undoubted and strong
talent, however, is far from fully developed, and the form could be perfect
more beautiful. But the purity of the content is striking: it is hardly possible to
to feel and think proletarianly.

Things are happening under the old order. A newcomer was hired at the plant, straight from.
‚22 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. t

villages, yesterday's peasant. What is it for the indigenous, primordial worker? Con-
kurent, and the most inconvenient one at that: it knocks down the board due to the low level
lack of needs and inability to even stand up for oneself, let alone defend common interests
res; He still has no idea about them. His thoughts are heavy, his feelings are narrow,
the will is poor, the outlook is pitiful... And it’s hard to count on it if today—
Tomorrow, friendly comradely action will be required. But look how he reacted
to him, a random, still alien stranger, his fellow poet.

With what royal attention, with what ‘tender solicitude’ he encourages
A small newcomer is introduced into the unfamiliar, incomprehensible, strange, even scary
peace for him! From what pstature ‘and strength, in concise words, but vivid images,
the poet tells him everything he needs to know and feel in order to become
a comrade among comrades; and a grandiose picture of the titanic forces of the “steel
chaos" of current technology, and the bitter truth about the "sea of tears" that it cost
to humanity, and the joyful news 0 of the “mighty Sol” of the great ideal, about the great
the happiness of the common struggle. The memory of a wonderful, distant wonder sounds touching.
kind, “peaceful dews; bright rivers, fields": how my heart yearns for her
Taria among stone and iron, and how rarely is the joy of meeting her available to him!
But he will achieve everything in his growing, steady, inevitable intensification.
lecture-creative will... The final one sounds with victorious confidence
chord: y

“There was still a link in the chain,
The army closed like a lot -
Don't be timid!

This is the initiation of a new brother into the knighthood of the Socialist Idea.
Is he not the organizer of his class?
*
* *

Proletarian poetry is still in its infancy. But it will develop. It is necessary
because the working class needs a complete, integral self-awareness, and
noesia is part of it.

She's still in childhood. But even when she grows up, the proletariat will not live by her
alone. He is the rightful heir of the entire past culture, the heir and all the best
what he will find in the poets of the feudal and bourgeois world.

But we must take this inheritance in such a way as not to obey the reigning in it
the lure of the past, as it still happens at every step. The inheritance should not
to lord it over the heir, but should only be an instrument in his hands.
The dead must serve the living, and not hold back, but fetter it.

And for this, the prosethetariat needs its own poetry. In order not to submit to someone else's
poetic consciousness, strong in its centuries-old maturity, the proletariat
you must have your own poetic consciousness, immutable in its clarity. This is new
consciousness must unfold and embrace all life, the whole world as a creative one
stvom. I

Let proletarian poetry grow and mature, and let it teach the working class
to be whathistory destined mu: a fighter and destroyer only in
external necessity, a creator - in his entire nature.

A. Bogdanov.
No. t PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 23

0 repertoire of the workers' theater ‘).

The question of the workers' theater repertoire is very acute. To one degree or another
Unfortunately, all our dramatic literature is imbued with the spirit of bourgeois culture.
tours, and meanwhile Syros to a suitable one that goes, at least, in the cut
With the proletarian ideology, dramatic literature grew incredibly. Demand
grew because a lot of factory and district theaters began to function.
A completely new audience, a huge audience with completely unusual
of our large theaters with the demands of the public, which does not want to put up with the 'bur-
zhuaz ideology and art, needs a very special reper-
toire. It goes without saying that the proletariat will create its own theater.
This is undoubtedly true, especially since modern theatre. represents such a legacy
which will not be able to satisfy all the demands of young, fresh social force.
The future proletarian theater will create its own acting technique, you
works its own stage device, will create its own new repertoire.

The creation of a genuine proletarian theater is a long process, and about this
theater is the concern of Proletkult, as an organization that sets itself. task - creation
true proletarian culture. But you can’t refuse services now
existing theater, it is necessary, if possible, to use this, eliminating,
of course, the most harmful, the most incompatible with the ideology of the proletariat
cops. This is where the question arises, to what extent and in what form modern
theater is acceptable to the proletariat. In this regard, there is also the question of the repertoire.

First of all, let’s make a reservation: all this talk will be about the transitional only. time,
when a genuine proletarian theater has not yet been created, that means about the modern modern
mente. It is clear that the tasks must be set temporary, for the present moment of urgency.
new; for later, maybe they will lose theirmeaning, especially
that true ‘art, which proletarian art should become, cannot
cannot be limited by any tasks; and goals

‘The current moment of the developing world revolution confronts us
certain goals——education of the masses in the spirit of internationalism, in irreconcilable
hostility towards capital, in the pursuit of friendly, comradely organization.

To carry out these tasks, we cannot neglect the theater as an effective
a disgustingly excellent means of education. And here at the very first lures we
we see that it is impossible to immediately and decisively avoid some tendentiousness of the plays,
We do not yet have any plays written by the workers themselves. The writers,
Those who came from the working environment can think for the workers, but they cannot feel
work like workers. That is why it very often happens that a play is proletarian in
of its ideology, which outlines pictures of workers’ employment, tends to
cious character. Let us recall, in fact, some of these plays: “Catastrophe”
(“The Weavers”) by Maria della Grazie, “Can Roul” by Octave Mirbeau, “The Weavers” by Hauptmann,
“Lyungor and K%”, Bergström, “Beyond Strength” by Bjornstjerne-Bjorneon, “Enemies” by Gor-
whom and others. Many of them are extremely good, but they bear the stamp of non-
which tendentiousness.

We find ourselves in a different position, much more favorable, when the per-
we go to plays that excite the revolutionary spirit, the spirit of the revolutionary-ortan-
called will. Here we can absolutely take tendentious plays, yes,
You know, tendentious plays cannot arouse this spirit. True drama
and true tragedy always has some kind of struggle at its core; indifferent
personally, essentially, what kind of struggle this will be, as long as it does not proceed
for narrowly personal reasons. It is also important that this struggle has its own meaning in the drama.
accomplishment and victory would belong to the spirit of revolutionary creativity. Of course
from a large number of truly artistic dramas and tragedies, exciting

1) The editors do not share all the author’s provisions in the futurewill return to
touched topic.
24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 1

who have a revolutionary spirit, many will have to be excluded from the workers’ repertoire
atrov for very different reasons (and, of course, temporarily), but even then remains
huge repertoire. From this repertoire we can highlight particularly suitable
nyesa. These are those that depict political or economic-social
struggle. The struggle for freedom and equality is, of course, an excellent topic for drama.
Turga, and, fortunately, we have a number of truly highly artistic
significant works of this kind: “William Tell” and “The Robbers” by Schiller,
“Julius Caesar” by Shakespeare, “Jacquerie” by Marimet, “Love After Death” by Calde-
Rona, - “Fuente-Ovejuna” (“Sheep Source”) by Lope de Veta, “Brandt” by Ibsen
and, finally, as the crown of this kind of drama, the most powerful in the sense of excitement
Emil's highly artistic drama of colossal energy and resistance
Verharna "Dawns"; Just look at these names to be convinced that zen-
There can be no denticence here, but meanwhile, in the criminality of the action of these plays
there can be no doubt about the organization of the militant mood of the workers.

“It seems to me that perhaps the most important motive when choosing a tsies for
worker performance is the degree of cheerfulness with which the worker leaves after
presentations. A play like “The Dawns” will not only awaken the revolutionary in him,
spirit, but will give him the strength to generally fight the obstacles and obstacles of life
real struggle. It goes without saying that those groups of ideas that I have indicated
were, do not exhaust the entire sphere in which propaganda should take place: Jewish
question (“Nathan the Wise”, “Jews”), the fight against superstitions (“Havva”) and the singing series
other very vulnerable places of our reality should be represented by the theater
find your worst enemy.

So far we have been talking about drama and tragedy. Comedies (I mean not modern-
new half-dramas, half-comedies, nothing in common with dramatic works
not having, but real bright comedies-satires on bourgeois society), on-
worthwhile comedies represent bthe best material for working theaters. When
their selection must be guided by the same considerations as when choosing
forest of dramas and tragedies. “Marriage”, “The Inspector General”, “The Death of Pazukhin”, in the famous
Ostrovsky's parts are excellent examples in this regard. th

Finally, one more note. All our efforts will be in vain if we work
who will not “accept” the plays offered to him. After all, everything is dramatic
creativity, as well as the style of acting, were not designed for him,
but for the pets of bourgeois culture, for our intelligentsia. And if you don’t
If we want to consider modern theater completely unacceptable for workers, then
in any case, not every manner of playing and not every type of play has equal value for him.
valuable acceptability. "Macbeth" will make a great impression on him, and "Vint-
New Garden"—Iikakoto (I deliberately take both plays with plots alien to the worker).

The question of the style of play, of new methods of production is a special topic that
here we can only outline.

Vl. Bogushevsky.

Towards the convening of the All-Russian cultural and educational
workers' conferences; organizations.

Through the hard lessons of history, the proletariat is paving the way to the end.
bodily liberation. The terrible crucible of world carnage through which he passed
walked, covered the mistakes of his past, pre-war tactics; but also the abyss of experiences
suffering, all this purgatory, is not enough: the majority of Western European
of the Pei proletariat continues to be in the grip of the past and is not aware
your mistakes. The curse of the past era, like the seal of Cain, lies on the
letariat and created for the imperialist octopus the possibility of almost irresistible
holding him tightly in your strong tentacles and sucking his vitality non-stop
No.: PROLVTARIAN CULTURE. 25

I smell blood. However, the force of things, the transitional nature of the era, pushes the proletariat
and the path of social battles. Success largely depends on presentation
clarity of the path. In order not to repeat the mistakes of the past, we will try to restore
their picture. ^

Instead of an active organized struggle for developmentinternationally AND
solidarity, the leaders of the proletariat used all their energy to strengthen the pro-
naganda to win political rights within a national framework, within the Bur-
zhuaz state; and the development of international solidarity was rewarded
to the spontaneous development of capitalism, which, widely and far beyond the limits of
affairs of the state, by the very course of its movement—contributes to the development of this
Folidarnoeti. As a result of such a passive attitude towards the issue of general social
of the movement, the war revealed the weakness of international solidarity
talents in the proletariat and the strength of nationalism. About the special power of contradiction
©0 of the nalistic movement emerged in the process of the Russian revolution and in relation to
the commitment of the proletariat of other countries, especially the German proletariat, to it,
in its overwhelming majority. Sbotsial-tsatriotism, and in essence social-pre-
The performance of this majority exceeded all expectations. In international
army of workers, the detachment of the German proletariat is the most politically
conscious, and yet its majority now performs shameful and in such
the role of the international gendarme, unprecedented in the world, with cruelty
suppressing revolutions in all countries accessible to him: Russia, Finland, Ukraine,
Botemia. How could it come to this?

‚ Propaganda for the development of class consciousness extended to the most
important aspects of political and economic life, but did not cover
the entirety, the entire volume of consciousness of the working class. The result is high poly-
tic and everyday-practical consciousness, but too low social
<tical, which does not meet the extremely complex requirements of modern
moment of the world struggle of the labor movement. In addition, a highly developed capital
talent of Western Europe, especially German, with powerful organization
‘the apparatus of the bourgeois state and provides enormous resistance
The onslaught of the workers and Tsenko keeps the proletariat in the grip of its nationalism. Here
1why is the European worker so slow to free himself from put social patriotism
and does not come to the aid of the Russian worker in his struggle for the establishment of social
"tic system. .

The Russian labor movement developed differently. Proletariat political
I almost didn’t live on sketches. The autocratic regime did not give the opportunity to ‘strengthen
reformist tendencies and illusions that with the help of small improvements
The letariat can achieve its liberation. The working class was deprived of elements
tariff rights, and this lack of rights deepened the growth of contradictions that forced
expected to pose questions radically and conduct a consistent, predominantly
socialist propaganda. The war finally shook the autocratic
regime and destroyed its backward economy. The contradictions deepened, and the weakness
the Russian bourgeoisie was given the opportunity to free themselves relatively easily by the city-
to the proletariat from the oppressors and go to the end to fight for
implementation of your plans. Possessing the results of theoretical experience of inter-
national socialism and not being constrained by andsycholotic skills,
adopted by the Western European proletariat in isolation from the bourgeoisie
a different system, we quickly decoupled from the capitalist system at home. But how
As soon as we got rid of him, we were faced with the task of organizing social
listic system, the lack of organization, discipline, and
pliny and practicality, this necessary quality that the Western
European proletariat. And comrade is deeply right. Lenin, when he says: “Knowledge
we have socialism, but knowledge of the organization on a scale of millions, knowledge
production and distribution of products, etc.—we don’t have that.” From what has been said.
Of course, it does not follow that the Russian worker must follow a difficult and painful path
spontaneous development, which the Western Ovrotsey proletariat is pursuing now, when
historical events of the world carnage tear him apart and grab him by the throat in the image

\ famine and diabolical imperialism. The path of adaptation to the bourgeois framework

26 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ‚ No. t

new system we must rejectosit. We have before us another path of development, unreduced
new class consciousness—through the development of a cultural socialist pro-
grams of the proletariat. Our Western brother will also be forced to stand on it: and
replace the mirage of particular practical improvements with the charm of something more important
the ultimate ideal, a bright light that spills out into the world.

“The direct participation of the Russian worker in the management of the country’s economy
facilitates the passage of the path of ortanization training, but it does not tarantula
This comes from surprises, which spontaneous development is always full of. In this case
he will be helped by broad, strictly class-based cultural and educational work; she
one thing is capable of giving loticity to every practical movement of the proletariat.
logical and expedient connection in the final task: the achievement of which will complete
working class struggle;

p.

Shadow, when we entered the broad road of free socialist
construction, we are faced with a task of colossal and extreme difficulty:
create a cultural socialist program for the working class. This pro-
the proletariat must create a tram, otherwise it will have to build socialism
groping, going from time to time in painful and painful steps. In na-
Fortunately, the working class is on the path to building a socialist culture
is already rising, as evidenced by the Petrograd and Moscow conferences
reactions of cultural and educational organizations. Both conferences as a stage
in the cultural movement of the proletariat, are of great importance, and their work is
serves as the most valuable material for developing a cultural program for the flight
riat and the starting point for the convened All-Russian Conference.

Defining the cultural tasks of the proletariat, the Petrotrad Conference
formulated them as follows: 41) the conference emphasizes that the movement of cultural
educational should take place next to politics, professional
movement and cooperation,” -

Further, in the third paragraph of the same resolution: “The Conference believes that
both in science and in art the proletariat will show itsindependent creativity,
but for this he must master all the cultural heritage of the past and present.
"Nothing."

And in the wording of the Moscow Proletkult: ‹1) Sticking to the osu-`
implementation of the socialist transformation of society, the proletariat must
immediately lay the foundations of a new class socialist culture.
To demonstrate independent creativity in the field of art and science,
the letariat must first acquire all the cultural heritage of the old
the bourgeoisie of the world, but he must. be critical of all the fruits of the old
culture, perceiving it not only as a student, but as a builder, called
erect a new building using viable elements of the old one,” How
the reader sees that there is no difference in defining the cultural tasks of the proletariat. Pe-
the Trograd conference was before the October revolution, and the Moscow four
months later, and the latter accepted everything in almost the same terms, although not
emphasized the essential position of the Petrograd Conference,
which defines the need for the cultural and educational movement
have their own independent organizational form, equally important on
along with other forms of the labor movement. The Moscow conference is oen=
I was unable to push this point to the forefront, but it was necessary to do so.
The overwhelming majority of party workers looked at cultural and pro-
illuminating work of the proletariat, as something auxiliary to other forms
labor movement, and not as an independent form. Difference between old
The current view is that previously this work was carried out on a case-by-case basis.
how long has this been called out as a necessity for one form or another of the worker
movements. The Petrograd Conference showed that this new form of the worker
movement must be independent, with a strictly developed program,
taking into account the entire history of the labor movement as a whole, and must lead a conscious
№ t PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 27

the systematic development of the entire ideology of the proletariat without missing outI'm not one-
a significant moment in the social and individual life of the proletariat. This is its huge
new meaning. After the conference in January 1918 Comrade Lunacharsky in front
article in Izvestia Proletarskoi Kultury defined the work of the conference as follows:
tions: “The dominant note of the conference was the desire of the proletariat to sa-
independence in all areas of culture. The idea of proletarian culture, like
a new page in the history of human creativity, seemed to the comrades of the workers
this is completely natural and undeniable.”

Another time, at a meeting of the editorial board of the magazine "People's Education" comrade.
Lunacharsky said with even greater relief: “Public education is for-
takes the place of the tseihikh in the body of the state.” Although it's said differently
about, but in this case between the state and education, proletarian
movement and him. cultural tasks are a complete analogy, and expressed by Comrade. Lu-
Nacharsky’s thought in both cases retains the same power and meaning.
The body of the proletarian organization most of all needs a healthy, clear
psyche of socialist enlightenment, and the working class deeply feels
this. Despite the emergency and severity of political events that
and the matter poses an alarming question: to be or not to be, the worker never ceases to ironically
show a burning interest in issues of proletarian culture and everywhere builds
cells.

On the principled side, at the Moscow Conference the most
the theses on the report by T. A. Bogdanov “Science and. work
whose class." As for its other resolutions, they are in some respects
are not as strictly trincipial as the Petrogrades. The fact is that Moscow
The conference did not fully understand its task. Instead of doing different
working methods in all areas of proletarian culture, the conference con-
focused primarily on practical cultural-educational issues
no work. Having chosen this path, she could not say anything on a number of issues.
say more than what the demo usually said on these issueskratiya.

But despite these shortcomings, both conferences were of great importance
in the development of the cultural movement of the proletariat. Summarizing the work of both con-
ferences, can be briefly formulated as follows; how the party is a laboratory
political line for the Soviet majority of the communi-
stov in order to implement a political program on a state scale,
Likewise, the cultural and educational organization of the proletariat is a laboratory
theory in order to implement the revolutionary cultural program of the proletariat
on the same national scale—and, of course, on a global scale.

It remains for us to say a few more words about the planned plenary reports.
nal meetings at the upcoming All-Russian Conference. About the first Renault report
lution and the cultural tasks of the proletariat" we will not do anything, because we will
that the editors' entire appeal to the reader is directly related to this report.
The second report “Science and the Working Class” has a pro-
letariat's most "essential" meaning. The conference will naturally draw on
his utmost attention. “Science is the accumulated experience of humanity,” and the
Tariat will have to ‘take an accurate account of this experience, determine its class
different attitude towards science and create your own class methods in order to build on them
later the science building. The conference needs to resolve the question of how
used the old inheritance and determined the ways and possibilities of pro-
skoy science. The third report, “Art and the Proletariat,” is also of great importance.
reading. Art orthodontizes our feelings, serves as cement that binds the heart.
and reason into a single whole, eliminates the discord that often arises between them and
thus contributes to the harmonious and harmonious development of social
note of consciousness. In addition, art is the most subtle and perfect instrument of
action on the broad masses. It is faster than science; it can penetrate into everyday life and the family.
The conference will have to clarify the attitude towards art, as well as towards science.
letariat, ways of mastering it, yourgreat opportunities and conditions, under which
of which the proletariat will create its own art.

25 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. t

The fourth report, “Ideals of Socialist Education,” has the same
important, just like the previous ones. The matter of public education is still
was entirely in the hands of the bourgeoisie; the proletariat in its most important period
of his life, when his psychology and worldview took shape, was subjected to
methods of educating a class hostile to him. The traces of upbringing are all around
remains for life, and thus the proletariat is in the grip of the bourgeois
ideology that interferes with the development of its own class consciousness. Ra-
the working class needs to create a socialist school and develop
Zods of socialist education. Thus, the conference is very
It is a complex and difficult task to outline ways and means for this. To work con-
conference has given fruitful results, its participants will have to treat
<9 take this extremely important issue seriously.

Finally the last, 5th report “Psychology of the Industrial Proletariat”
In our age of machinism, identity deserves to be taken seriously. Osu-
The implementation of the cultural tasks of the proletariat will mainly be determined
this isychology; she is their main source and instrument of fulfillment; outline and
identify trends. this half resolves the question of cultural issues
the decline of the proletariat in general.

We have noted only the main reports of the plenary sessions; as for
‹lectures, then the conference participants will be aware of them in the following
magazine issue. .

So, the Russian revolution gave the proletariat the opportunity to prepare
cultural-educational conference’ of a new type, the first in the world, at which
The second proletariat will have to develop its own program of cultural tasks.
We will end our call to work with the words of the Petrograd appeal.

Comrades!

The proletariat has a great and persistent thirst for knowledge.

In the upcoming struggle for the further growth of the Great Russian Revolution
he needsbut be well armed. Knowledge is a weapon. The proletarian thirsts
not only knowledge, which organizes the mind, but also art, which organizes
hearts. The proletarian feels that true art is breathing, ennobling
shapes a person, makes him capable of great feelings and actions, and that it,
like no other force, pays toliy into a single collective. Knowledge and beauty
people and classes are raised. They themselves grow with the growth of people and classes. Chertsaya
abundantly. in the treasury of science and. art, the proletarian himself will create in
these areas, and his creativity will be new, because his
position in society. It will be broadly human, because the proletarian is
What he enslaves, he brings brotherhood to everyone; it will be grand and deep, then-
sang that the horizons of the working class are vast, and those feelings are bottomless
with which the soul of the revolutionary creative masses is rich. Enlighten 4 create
in art and art, this is an integral part of any powerful society
movement, any ‘revolution’.

->

Comrades! Get ready for the conference, discuss a diya,
elect delegates!
Organizational Bureau.

Moekva, 15/UT 918 Ga

What organizations send delegates to the conference and the norm
representative offices.

The following organizations are sending representatives to the conference:

‘Proletkult’ (independent working class organizations).

K,.-Pr. Department of factory committees.

K.-Pr. Department of Trade Unions.

K.-Pr. Workers' Cooperation Department.

K,.-Pr. Department of the Councils of Deputies of Cities and Large Centers with a Population of at least
20 thousand.
L? 1 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 29

Representation norm: organizations up to 5 thousand send 1 delegate; from
5 to 10 thousand, -2 delegates; from 10 to 26 thousand—3 delegates and m for every 25 thousand
1 delegate. Small organizations are uniting.

Organizing Bureau for the convocation of the All-Russian Federation. conf. span. k.-pr. organiza-
tions sends 8 representatives.

Editorial board of the magazine “Proletarskaya Kultura”—2 representatives.

Department of independent proletarian cultural and educational ortanizationsat Nar.
Com. Education - 9 representatives.

V. Ts. I. K. Oovdepov—2 representatives,

Central committees of the socialists, parties standing on the platform of the Soviet
authorities - 2 representatives each.

Workers' Cooperation Council—? representatives.

Railway "Tsekult"—2 representatives.

Individuals are invited by decision of the Organization. Bureau.

s Instructions to conference delegates.

1) Each delegate, going to the conference, must have a mandate for
seal of the organizations to which he is delegated, signed by the chairman and
secretary of the meeting indicating the number of comrades who accepted the actual
participation in discussion of the agenda of the conference and voting.

2) The delegate must bring a completed journal printed on the page
submitted the application form with the proper signature and seal,

8} New questions can be included in the agenda of the conference no later than
like three days before its opening. To do this, it is necessary to inform in writing
shield Org. Bureau the topic of the report, the name, patronymic and surname of the speaker and attach
abstracts typed in 10 copies.

4) Delegates arriving at the conference must register with the Or-
Taniz. Bureau.

Regulations of the conference and its sections.

11) Conference classes take place twice a day: in the morning from 8 to 12 o’clock and
in the evening from 3 to 8 o'clock.

2) Each member of the conference is obliged to take part in the work of one of
sectionly,

3) “The speaker of the plenum and sections has 45 minutes for a report and 20 minutes for a conclusion.
a respectful word.

4) Opponents have the floor for the first time at 15 meters, the second time at bm.

5) To questions of the order of the day, to voting, to proposals, etc.
The word for and against is given for 3 minutes.

6) Personal statements at the end of the meeting for 3 minutes.

7) When voting on resolutions on reports of the plenum, the floor is given for and in favor of
tive for 10 minutes, when voting amendments for 5 minutes.

8) When voting on resolutions proposed by sections, the rapporteur from the section
tions 10 minutes and 5 minutes for closing remarks. Opponents have 5 minutes.

9) Each section elects a presidium: chairman, comrade. chairman and
secretary; The presidium keeps minutes of its meetings and approves them.

10) Each section adopts a resolution and selects a report from among its members
chika to protect her at the plenum;

Conference work plan.

First day. (Last meeting).
Opening of the conference.
Elections of the Presidium,
Report of the Organizational Bureau.
Elections of the Credentials Committee.
30: PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. t

Second day. (Morning meeting).

Report: “Revolution and cultural tasks of the proletariat” (V. Nolyaneky). -
Debate on the report.
Adoption of a resolution.
Section distribution.
(In the evening ‘section meeting’).
Culturally simple: awesome. tasks of trade unions (A; Gastev).
Cult.-enlightenment. tasks of workers' cooperation (N. Vasilevsky).

Gretiyo day. (Morning meeting).
Report: “Science and the proletariat” (A. Bogdanov),
Debate then report.

Adoption of a resolution.
(Sections meeting in the evening).
Section of the workers' university. (The speaker has not yet been scheduled.)
Club section (0. Krivtsov). ;
Lecture section (A„ Bogdanov): "| }
Library section (V. Polyansky).
Fourth child. (Morning meeting).
Report: “The Proletariat and Art” (A. Lunacharsky).
Debate on the report.
Adoption of a resolution.
(Sections meeting in the evening).
Lit.-ed. section (V. Kerzhentsev).
Section of Fine Arts (D. Sternbert).
Theater section (A. Lunacharsky).
Cinematographic section (N. Preobrazhensky).
Music section (N. Bryusova).
Fifth day. .(Morning meeting).
Adoption of section resolutions.
(Evening meeting).
Adoption of section resolutions.

Sixth day. (Morning meeting).

Report: “Organizational and financial issue. (The reporter has not yet
scheduled).

(Evening meeting)

Approval of the Proletkult charter.

Elections of the Central Committee, the editorial board, the audit commission and the publishing commission
study of the conference minutes.

„Seventh day.

Report: “Peitology of the industrial proletariat” (F. Kalinin).
Report: “Ideals of socialist insurrection” (N. Ulyanova).

Questionnaire.

1) Name of the organization and its address,

2) Area of activity and number of persons served.

3) Time of occurrence and endclear history of the organization.

4) What departments does the organization have (club, theater, school,
workshop, lecture, excursion, etc.)?

5) Connection with other proletarian organizations or dependence on them.

6) Does the organization use the help of ‘central organizations, which
exactly, and what did the help consist of?

7) What are the immediate work plans?

8) How does the organization live?

9) What are the results of the work? Please provide numbers if possible.

10) Who are the ideological organizers and leaders? Party
affiliation of organizational participants.
№ t PROLETARIAN CULTURE. `

z7

11) What is the greatest need? :

132) What kind of help can be expressed and what kind is desirable. Central "Pro-
letkult"?

18) What is the attitude of workers towards cultural and educational work, and how
What is their participation in this work?

14) Which job interests workers more? Which of the initiatives were met?
chens with great interest, and what is their fate?

The Organizational Bureau requests that all questions be answered as soon as possible.
it and attach all available printed material to the questionnaire. All, more or
less of significant interest will be published in our magazine “Pro-
Letarian Culture" or as a separate issue. Answers and available material

We ask delegates to bring them with them to the conference.

On all matters of convening the All-Russian Conference “Proletkult”
and the magazine “Proletarskaya Kultura” please contact us at:

Org. Bureau: Moscow, Vozdvizhenka, 16, tel. 4-42-22

Chairman V. Polyansky.
Secretary F. Kalinin.

Chronicle of Proletkult.

Starting our reviews of the activities of self-
standing proletarian cultural. organ-
nizations, we believe it is not superfluous to assume
send a few words about what you want to our
look at the nature of these reviews. Our journal
The book is dedicated to issues of proletarian culture
tours, that's why we believe that our
the main task will be the systematic re-
a summary of all endeavors in this field
working class. And here is why we must
impose on yourselfknown limitation

All messages from localities or even from capitals
they usually don’t talk about independent
endeavors of the working class, not both creative
sky attempts, but almost exclusively about a number of
educational endeavors. We don't argue
that this is one of the main
of the tasks of the working class in mastering
instruments of bourgeois domination. After all, only
to through the assimilation of extracted and accumulated
previous generations of knowledge, let
even by the feudal lords or the bourgeoisie, flying
Riat will be able to become the creator of his life. But
after all, in addition to this, we must be even more creative
work, paths must be outlined purely
proletarian culture, or rather, its elements
cops, Notice these elements in every possible way
to identify and clarify them and constitutes our
task. —

And here we are standing in front of the big
difficulty, since, unfortunately, it is reported
people on the ground do not note this at all
sides of the issue. Moreover, the matter is political

construction was so absorbed
` representatives of the most cultural part
workers, that for cultural issues
There is absolutely no time left for them. This
and only then can we explain the under-
the sufficient depth of the current culture
a lot of creativity. There is breadth and even over-
too sick, why do we see dominance

extensive creativity over intensive,
And for our purposes, it’s the depth that’s important.
capture.

After all, in creativity itself it is observed
dialectical process - gradual
accumulation of quantitative development passes
in quality. And us on these pages
should not be interested in soil preparation,
not preparation. materials (active-enlighten-

’ work), and the very start of the initial

Lamas of hard, difficult creative work.

After these cursory remarks outlining
scope of our reviews, let's move on to the review
what we have, Let's start with our eldest
brother - St. Petersburg "Proletkult". Semi-
having placed at his disposal the old palace of the
Ryan's meeting, he began to reveal his
face and your achievements, what you can find about
information in the published issues of “The Coming”.
It should be right herenote insufficient communication
it with the regions, since, judging by
content of the magazine, its work is reduced to
to identifying forces in the center, and even then in the region
art. These days there was a con-
conference of organizations that make up the “Iro-
Letkult", at which the international
gious issues of practical construction.
The absence was unanimously noted. funds
and a great dispersion of forces. Discussed
questions about the socialist school, about pro-
Letarian Theater, etc. In the adopted conference
The resolution emphasizes that pro-
Letarian culture must express itself
the inner content of the new, the creator of life
neither—the proletariat and its ultimate ideal—
socialism; in its development it can
build only through independent efforts
the proletariat itself, faithful to its class-
owl tasks. From cultural heritage
of the past, the proletariat takes everything that is socially
is conducive to living on a socialist
32 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. t

the beginnings and what educates the proletarian mas- dating activity is still limited

sy in a fighting socialist spirit. release of a number of postcards with reproductions
The conference calls on the proletariat to the most interesting works of art.
struggle for the organization of a proletarian center. Desiring to help the artistic system emerge,
culture on such a basis that he is a › lama of the working class under the leadership of Comrade.
ideological inspirer of the entire cause of the people - P. Nuznetsova, Comrade Ivanova, open artistic
education and upbringing, private school. T. Kerzhentsev suggests
Seeing the final triumph of ‘class’ open a number of theater studios for work
ideas of the proletariat in the world proletarian party. In the regions there is an increased
solidarity, Petrograd conference, interest in theatrical creativity. Same
in order to create a single world prodetar - reports from Ivanov-Voznesensk, with
of the Russian cultural and educational front, which marks the ever-growing indifference
welcoming foreign revolutionary ‘bormas’ to amateur cultural activities. God-
tsov for the triumph of socialism - the builders ‘Rodek workers’ university built its
proletarian culture, decides to work precisely on the initiative of his
at the first opportunity to begin with co-students, and the leaders note that
calling for an international congress to create an active method of work gave the best results
of the Central International Protata. But the idea of Proletkult in some
letkult. in places it receives a peculiar refraction.
The Moscow “Proletkult” could not until now. Thus, in Perm the local “Proletkult”
It’s time to reveal your identity for a number of reasons. disliked the production of operettas, obviously
Now the obstacles to his work have been removed, saying that he is also the boss, T. Dunachar-
and we believe that his life will go the same way. Sky could not, of course, help but note this
conquest to another. It is impossible not to note the intervention of a cultural organization in
the fact that the lifeless state is the area of control. .
the state in which he remained from March to June, Moves to the line of the day as soon as possible
the convening of the Proletkult conference to raise awareness of
workers. At first, there was sympathy for everything - the revision of their charter and the delimitation of work
entirely on his side, and in the regions they demanded, with” other organizations in a homogeneous all-
so that all artistic entertainment and lek- Russian scale. For this convocation and preparation
tions were arranged by his forces, which he could not call himself extremely actively specially chosen
fulfill. Now the Organizing Bureau has been planned and already carried out. |
the following into life. To popularize In conclusion, our brief discussion
the idea of proletarian culture, we were arranged to appeal to all workers of the pro-
two discussions: one about the proletarian arts and culture © please report
stvo, and the other is about the socialist theater. us about our work, without any formalities.
The introduction to the first was made by Comrade Zalewski, mine and paying the most important attention to
and in the second - i.e. Kerzhentsev. Both discussions are how they are conducted in real life.n cultural na-
gathered a large audience in the halls of beginnings and how much is manifested in them
"Proletkult" and were very lively. active participation of broad workers,
People here don’t dream of having their own magazine yet, but because of- , Art. Krivtsov.

| Bibliography,

"Red Light". Weekly literature - the desire for the new, the future. How much
nature and art magazine, ed. 060 the entire magazine can be said; "everyone is in pro-
I. Yasinsky, Petrograd. shlom”, it is felt so much in all things that

everything is in the future.

There is no special literary skill, but
there is data that makes it possible
to develop into a true artist of words.

Why is the light red? At five
issues of this weekly neither ogy nor
revolutionary upsurge. Most of the plot
I'm about"
me alas Hell you OH and A Firstly, they have something to say, secondly,

\what they want to say is truly theirs

Variegated literary vermicelli is a culture - its own, not invented, not demanded -
chena with no less colorful illustrations. Khri-por street fashion. Behind them is a huge, I can-
stos in hell, bacchante, oriental beauty, team of a victoriously marching class, your
democratic plots and decadent ones, who are celebrating their new life. Excess strength and flamboyance
sunki, head of Marat. Just like the good bones of the experiences have not yet been fulfilled
the old word "Otonek" stock exchange, the finished form of the word. Need a big one

It’s not clear why people got here because of their speech structure and sophistication
divided literary family. Bessalko, P9-language, we still need a channel for the element of feelings
sea, Volkov could, it seems, find thoughts. But the images already live, the speech is formed
yourself a more friendly environment. is possible. Life requires new artists

You stop at their things. Feelings of consciousness; their voices are still weak, there are still few of them
There is a genuine uplift, a genuine self; but they are needed, their strength will grow,
’and we, a huge, collective whole,

to

No. t

and they will make their contribution to the universal
creativity,

“Red Corner” ‘Volkova symbolizes
the idea of abandoning the so-called. personal happiness. You can't
just get away from the soothing” peace of personal
new joys; have to be pulled out by the roots
their very source, to destroy all possible
the possibility of returning to the comfort of isolation
individual world, And the brighter and more intense
the more readable is the world of individual joys, the more

/ more dangerous’ to hesitate in it, the one who wants

merge with the source of the common, I conquer everything -
for the movement, one must surrender everything to it
devote yourself wholeheartedly to him. Hero
miniatures of Volkova killing a drunken AI; love-
a beaten woman, as a true man would kill
revolutionary - collectivist the sprouts of his
ambition, as if he would destroy any look-
pushing forward what prevents him from seeing what
connects his movements. "After all, new forms
then they only determine their meaning when
“The new man confirms them with all his might,”
the hero says to the old man, the father of the murdered woman. The old man doesn't
understands. Many of the readers will not understand either.
Why destroy when you can rebuild,
build on? Why kill the joy of blooming
Ezhiani? Is it -`building a new life—
'Moloch, who demands the most precious sacrifice,
What does a person have?

Of course, the author is not a principled murderer
the murder of a woman is only a symbol. Destroy-

you have to reap to make room for sprouts.

new; without sacrifice there is no struggle, no conquest.
Great suffering is accompanied by race+
the interruption of a pro-one who is freed from the path
bad; but also the joy of creating new forms
incomparable to any other joy. Not
you and I, both small, closed little worlds,
became
is the center of consciousness of the future man.
The universalism of consciousness is preached by Vol-
kov in his small dramatic scene,
“he wants to embody the integrity with the team
In ‘Szoy’s image of a revolutionary. And does oi
this is with genuine sincerity, with high
elation. Some things bother him
disheveled language, rhetorical individual

ny places; thanks to the lack of work.

details, instead of creepy. simplicity of tragedy
pose appears. The female image is insufficient
but bold and bright. You can feel the taste

“sentimentalism in the explanations of two lovers

atsix, But all these are the shortcomings of the majority
beginners. In further work, the language
radiates greater refinement, design
speech—greater conciseness and expressiveness.
Wide scope, rush for a big takeover
will result in a finished form. We'll wait
his new things;

Bessalko’s etude ‘is worth examining in connection
with his other works. In the sixth
In the measure of “Flame” there is his story “The Sorcerers”;
probably by the second issue of our magazine
Nala will appear and something else. Interesting
track the development of talent across several
things right away

Lyrical ‘poem of the Pomeranian Te-
poorly and sincerely; is distinguished by its simplicity and good-
kinship of form. E. Khersonekaya.

"Flame". public

'literary orange-

Monthly
urny and thin

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

33

cash edited by A; V. Lunacharsky. Publishing house
tion of the Petrograd Soviet. )

Before us are 5 numbers of “Flame”. Neinte-
dull and boring magazine. And he didn't meet
no response among the Petrograd pro-
letariat. Talented poets and writers
from the workers in “Flame” their works were not
ivllot. Yes, that’s natural, Magazine
does not have a working appearance. Tortured intellect
literary stories by R. Ivnev, numerous
new ‘drawings by Lebedev, ‘depicting Renault
lution street of Petrograd in the form of a siphi-
lytic orangutans and chimpanzees, not
to attract the attention of the working masses; One-
sample, to the same ’ monotonous graphics
Chekhonina, No need for photographs “about unloading”
wagons with lard", local reproduction
“Our winners”, to the boulevard style
works like “Prole--” are approaching
Tara willow."

And it’s somehow annoying that among this no one
you see portraits of leaders that are unnecessary rubbish
proletariat and ‘articles by A. Lunacharsky,

Some of them, for example, “How to give birth”
science" is necessary for the proletariat, as
bread, but now they are lost in the pages
dim, dying “Flame”. 2:0,

"Creativity." No. 1. May. 1918. Edition
"Izvestia of the Moscow Council". ‹

Compared to other numerous
magazines filling the book market,
"Creativityo" stands out favorably in its appearance
ness. r

Excellent paper, clear lyrift, great
linen, made on chalk paper, artistically
Captivating pictures attract buyers,
Yes, and it’s not worth it at today’s prices.
rogo - only 1 rub. 20 koi,

The situation is different with content. Zhur-
cash is primarily artistic. He
awakens love for the fallen and losers,
calls to a wonderful future in which
labor will reign, but the chosen topics are old
and are interpreted in the old, intellectual way
mu, with sentimental romanticism. Not a view
but new, truly proletarian creativity
quality, exuberant, wide, exciting
and a cajoling reader. Can't feel it at all
of that fighting nature; which is inherent
moment.

“Creativity” has the form of a magazine, compiled
special for the working masses, which publications are
adopted by the Russian intelligentsia more than once.

The first attempt was unsuccessful for the comrades.
But we deeply believe that it is Moscow. pro-
the letariat will support this literary initiative
knowledge, breathes his soul into it, and on the country-
prostrate "Creativity". will flare up and illuminate the world
new light new creativity born
in the depths of the industrial sector

"The Future" /Groletarskiy artistic production-
literary journal. No. 2. 1918 Edition
Petrograd "Proletkult".

The magazine is run exclusively by writers
and poets from the working class environment. Proletarskaya
life with its ‘interests, thoughts, ebullient
struggles and joys are felt on every
page.

The printed things are written with talent,
with deep artistic sincerity,
but not all of them wear that creative

3

ateAAr.”
CBT. PUESIC
‚ VIVLISLER |

o. PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

imprint and pattern that are inherent
exclusively to the proletariat alone.

Happily stands out in this regard
poem by Vlad. Kirillov "We". ,

With a daring challenge to the bourgeois world,
protecting his culture, his “beauty”
from the invasion of the “Great, Ham,” ‘the poet throws
menacing words:

“In the name of our Tomorrow—solokem” Raphael,
We will destroy museums, trample the arts of flowers
you.
Girls in lightom kingdom to come
They will be more beautiful than the Venus of Milo.”

This cry of the poet’s tormented soul, like
as if licking it with a restless, anar-
by the historical will of Andreevsky Savva, there is,
however, psychological, but not ideological
Sky moment. It is caused by the bitterness of the pro-
tive of those who, under the guise of protecting beauty in
life protects the old life in which—

“Tears have dried up in our eyes) tenderness
killed."

/The poet is not only a destroyer, he is a creator
predominantly. Despite all the heaviness
forced hard labor life in a factory,
he glorifies the creative torment of the collective
a lot of work as the basis of a new life; he loves
beat the machine and steam, which, after the ‘conquest,
tion of the culture of ownership and exilation,
will give the proletariat ‘the opportunity to become
the underside of life and really lay
universal human happiness.

№t

The poet passionately says:

“We have forgotten the smells of herbs and spring flowers,”
Comrade,
We fell in love with the power of steam and power, ‘dyna-
} mita,
The sound of sirens and the movement of shafts and wheels.
We were born drunk with metal, with souls with machines.
i = merged by us.

Muscles. hands

ours are thirsty for Giganteka
"works,

The collective burns with creative torment

chest.

We are our own Godhead and Judge and Law.”

The same faith in collective creativity
the powerful power of labor, into the all-purifying silt
less rebellion of those related to metal - and
machines against the culture of capital penetrated
chickpeas and another thing by V. Kirillov - “To the City”.

The poet hears the sounds of countless consonants
hammers. “This is a gigantic forge, where dust-
a new joyful life is forged; ‘this is ‘mo-
a thick symphony of labor, iron and steel,”

The poet loves the city because it’s so great
bridge to the liberation and triumph of man
century",

“Huge pipes overturned into the pebo are used
they burn incense to the new god, the human being.”

The magazine reprinted “The Tower” by A. Ga-
Steva, one of the best works of the poet
cars and steel. .

“The Future” stands out brightly among all
magazines and talent and proletarian
worldview, 9v0 noted criticism from
cialistic and \bourgeois knew, dem

The editors of the journal ask you to send them work journals for review.
and defense specialistsproletarian writers and poets,

+

at

Publisher -

_Ore. Owl Bureau Conf. Flight. K.-Pr. Organizations.

Editor -

Editorial Board.

Second State Printing House, Trekhprudny, 9,