Workers of all countries, unite!

Proletarian Nultura.

MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
Organ Center. Committee of the All-Russian Propetkupt Council.

Editorial office and office address: Moekva, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 26-30.
Reception with the editorial secretary daily from 11 to | hours of the day.
:.

No. 7-8. April—May. 1919

® CONTENTS: About Proletkult and Soviet cultural work. A. Lumacharsky.—

and tasks and paths. V, Polyansky. — Essays, “organizational science,” A, and —
workers in the mouth, F. -o V, Plet*
0 ry —Collective creativity in the theater, in, Kerzhentsev,—0 se © Kalinin.— 6
V.

Poetry y.—“Koetsam. V. Kiril
catch.—Aviators, Russian. A, we —- Model charter a, l,

All-Russian Sov. Proletkult.—Chronicle P V—Instru

courses; St, Krivtsov. — Conferences, — Reports of A. Sidorov. — “Revo”

Lucia and art", S.D. K.—Zalewski, “Art and the Proletariat.” See Krivtsov.—

Groshik. Stories, /7, Rudokoya.—V, Ignatov, “Szatsebnaya Party,” /7. Rubokop.—

No.] \Beeps”, V. G-d - “Our forge. On the 1st—Red Morning.” A, O, |

Proletkult
I'm
‚Soviet cultural work.

When I, together with several comrades, convened in Petrograd, within a few
days before the coup, a conference on proletarian culture, I, of course,
imagined the significance and role of the organization that emerged from this conference, acquired
Retsche later became the name of Proletkult, in forms other than those in which it was cast.

At that time, state power was purely bourgeois, and the proletariat
accounted for on the basis of extra-state and partly anti-state
amateurs to seek their own cultural paths. 8

As a task of raising the mental, ethical and esthetic level of education
importance of the proletariat, and the task of independent creativity, the development of their own
class norms inherent only to the iroletariat in all these areas, lay down
on the young shoulders of this ortanization. /

From the very beginning, I pointed out complete parallelism here: the party in political
region, professional union in the economic region, Prodetkult in the cultural sector
tour

Now everything has changed, we have tothink again and again about
in what relation. must become a communist party to Soviet power;
what should be the laws of relationships, trade unions, with one
parties, the Economic Council and other economic bodies of the Soviet state—
on the other; what should be the boundary between Proletkult, on the one hand,
and the People's Commissariat for Education - another?

I won’t touch on the first two questions now, I’ll just mention that neither
who doesn’t think of finding the batch superfluous and replacing it, meaning almost
complete personal coincidence of the Central Committee with the Council of People's Commissars; or

1

Bymeny Ya. M Sverbl

ahh
the presidium of the Ts.I.K. or something else in this regard; no one comes
It’s hard to say that the party and the Soviet government are working in parallel.

Everyone understands that this is so, it should be so, that this work
is essentially led by the conscious communist proletariat, for which in
At the present time, both the party and the Soviet government are bodies.

The proletariat, having laid its hand on state power, having taken possession of all cultural
tour property of the country, it goes without saying, had to create organs
to transform schools of all types, libraries, museums, theaters, concerts,
rates, magazines, etc. etc., etc. d, into an instrument of proletarian enlightenment.

What does this mean: Ifoletiar enlightenment? )

This means, firstly, the dissemination of those universal human values of science
and arts, of which one cannot be a knowledgeable person, outside of which one flies
Riat will remain a barbarian, without the acquisition of which he will not even be able to
to make full use of either the power or the instrument of production, which
he: won. :

This is a gigantic task.

To it we must add one more: proletarian enlightenment must be
also call the spread of purely proletarian ideas, firstly, in weak pro-
embodied environments of the proletariat itself, secondly, in the masses of the peasantry and physical
the working population in general, and finally, among the intelligentsia.

Does the proletariat already have a similar idea?her property, which can be considered
is it uncontroversial for him? '

Yes, in some areas it does; the most processed parts of Marxism,
especially in the field of sociology and economics, to a lesser extent in the field of history
ries and philosophies can now definitely lay claim to legitimate
place, first place in universities, libraries, etc. |

The basis of a practical, political program is a wonderful asset...
something that should become known to everyone in the political
our ganda - therefore they must be carried out through all government bodies
authorities. * Ha k

But even if we take into account these purely proletarian elements, assimilated by the state,
powerful apparatus and carried through it into the consciousness of the masses, then even then we will see that
they represent in volume a relatively small part of “what
is the content of state cultural work.

Clos may deny that in teaching the sciences, for example, we should use
‘what is now called all the accumulated experience? Perhaps we will succeed in some
degree to change their teaching methods, but this task is extremely lengthy.
body

In the field of art we must under no circumstances abandon the proletariat
alien to all the wondrous manifestations that the genius of mankind has accumulated.

Here we encounter two extremes, from which we must in every possible way warn
bodies of the proletariat embarking on the path of state cultural work.

There are people who believed that any spread of the "old" spider
and “old” art is an indulgence to bourgeois tastes, cursed by cultural
treasury, infection of the young socialist organism with the blood of a ruined
worn out old stuff.

There are relatively few extreme representatives of this misconception, but the harm caused
worn by them could be great. It is remarkable that some are zealous beyond reason
great supporters of proletarian culture sing here in unison with the futurists who
from time to time they also admit the desirability of almost physical extermination
it's all oldth culture and self-restraint of the proletariat are still completely ^
unconvincing experiences to which art is reduced for themselves.

No, I repeat for the thousand and first time that the political elite must be in the world
universal human education, a historical class, it must move forward
in connection with the whole past.

To discard the sciences and art of the past under the pretext of their bourgeois nature is also
is absurd, just like discarding machines in factories or iron ones under the same pretext
roads. |

_Woreeeenekiya and m you
s The other extreme is that, being carried away by general scientific and social
artistic cultural work, people say: this is the real
proletarian work - if you spice it all up, so to speak, anoint it with a Marxist from above =
Russian sociology, the communist program, then we will get what we need.

It is not enough to oppose this. Great proletarian class
yubpovit gradually culture © from top to bottom. He will develop his leadership
a style that will affect all areas of art, he will put into it a completely
a completely new soul; the proletariat will also modify the very structure of science, Already
Now it is possible to predict in which direction his methodology will develop.

If at present they decided to impose on the state apparatus
task of spreading only the new, only the Iroletarian, we would bring down the pro-
letariat into barbarism, we would cut off its roots, and there would be no reason to be surprised,
©if the fruits of proletarian creativity in the field of science and art were

At the same time slow and stunted.

The business of Mr. Sudarotva is to spread truly indisputable knowledge that
the letariat conquered only in a few areas directly adjacent to its
%.fight, and with a wide wave to irrigate the proletarian field with all that richly fertilized
the corrupting material of which he is the heir.

But if, as a result, they declared that one can be indifferent to self-
worthy proletarian quest for slavery of representatives of the working class
to develop our own forms of artand our own paths in science, then we
young people would fall into the most deplorable delusion.

Thus, both of these tasks are definitely and clearly limited: Prolegult
and in what case should we not consider the first shoots of proletarian art and
proletarian thought (with the exception of the data of scientific socialism) ready price
ity and try to replace with them the values of the culture of previous eras,
It's also a matter of concern for spreading familiarity throughout the region
"human education" through his organs: in the first case he would have shown
the most careless arrogance, which must be left entirely to futuristic
Stam, in the second - he would invade his own work, which the proletariat is doing
“With the same hand, into national work.

But Prolegult must focus all its attention on studio work,
by noticing and supporting original talamts among the proletarians, and creating
research circles of writers, artists, all kinds of young scientists from the working class
‘class, on creating the most diverse studios and living organizations in all areas
areas of physical and spiritual culture, with the indispensable task of developing freedom there
free and free, without exaggeration and without invention, the seeds that are in progress
‘tara soul.

The proletarian state, returning to the workers' and peasants' state, cannot but relate
“with the greatest confidence and with the greatest care for this kind of young organizations,
tions, from which that light and that light will gradually spread, which
in due time will significantly surpass everything that we have inherited, and this will create
in the field of culture, the new world that we have founded in the field of politics, which
‘which we carried out in the field of economy.

I think therefore that the aspirations of, for example, the Department of Public Education
under the Moscow Council to completely destroy the Moscow Proletkult
illegal, they also cannot be crowned with success, since all others
the Russian Soviets take a different point of view; and it would be completely absurd
completely prohibit the Moscow proletariat from having suchsame organization for
Under the development of new cultural values, which are now
in almost every city; to destroy everywhere such richly growing and
Proletkults, which give so many valuable fruits to the Moscow Council, fortunately,
I can't do it

A. Lunacharsky.

Our tasks and paths.
Yo

The working class, in the struggle for its liberation, followed two paths: the path of struggle
political and economic. He could not limit himself to one form of movement
liberation from economic dependence was unthinkable without conquering
political rights; every economic struggle inevitably resulted or
no form of political struggle, since the ruling classes never
what privileges did they not voluntarily give up to the oppressed masses,
and they could give in, realizing that this always leads to a weakening of their dominance,
and the hour of final rasilata approaches. Usiyehi political struggle gave
the opportunity to expand the base of economic struggle, and vice versa. These two forms
the struggle was like two stormy streams merging into a rushing river, which
inevitably must overcome all obstacles in its path.

In Russia the proletariat won, it threw off the political and economic
the oppression of a catalistic society. The “last and decisive battle” flares up
in Western Europe, And the moment is not far off when the proletariat of the whole world.
will be able to throw off the chains of the political and economic death of the old world. In the mud
next great day of worldwide joy, can we say what has happened?
complete liberation of the proletariat from the bonds of bourgeois society? No, we can’t ;,
In addition to political and economic oppression, there is also spiritual oppression, cultural oppression.
tours, which cannot be thrown into one Don and the fight against which under the reign
Stivz of capital on any large scale was impossible. Now,
when the bourgeoisie is defeated and can no longer corrupt the proletariat with its science
Coy and her art, how she corrupted him with political and economic
handouts, the proletariat begins to deploy butnew form of struggle against
rogo m'ra, cultural and educational struggle. Shored layers of revolutionary
the proletariat clearly understand how deeply bourgeois culture has confused the working class
class in all his everyday life. She poisoned his psychology, poisoned it’
everyday life, and did not give him the opportunity to develop his collectivistic
creative impulses. In a capitalist society, the proletariat, represented by its leaders,
K. Marx! F, Engels and others managed to overcome part of science, its sociological
branch; now he wants to overcome all bourgeois science and all bourgeois art.
government, and, moreover, himself, realizing that at the same time there will be a reorganization of its
life, his feelings in full agreement with the communist ideal. About bourgeoisness
science was written, for example, by A. P. Shchanov, a contemporary of N. G. Chernyshevsky.
In one of his articles—“Siberian Society before Speranskoto”—he states,
that “no civil society based on capitalist and family-
the patrimonial hegemony of the merchant class, the bourgeois olitarchy, cannot have an historical
great social progress. Capitalist, bourgeois. class, at least
and enlightened by the sciences, yet by its very essence cannot allow.
social equality and economic balance of lower workers and
industrial wealth, constituting the source of their enrichment, the subject of their
exploitation, the foundation of the capitalist social pyramid. On the contrary,
even if such bourgeois people were enlightened by the sciences, then they would become from the sciences
would strive to extract and weave only the web of their bourgeois sephism and
metaphysics, to compose their own cunning system of capitalist science.
Even in the field of science, they would only know what is accompanied by interests
large capital... So the true scientific, humane and social
mental and moral development with a bourgeois-capitalist mindset
niem."

This not fully thought out idea of the populist historian proletariat fof-
simulated with the greatest precision and more deeply. On the first inRussia
Conference of Proletarian Cultural and Educational Organizations, convened
L 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. from

oh comrade A.V. Lunacharsky in Petrograd on October 16, 1917, was with*
A general resolution was adopted, which stated: “The Conference emphasizes that the movement
Cultural and educational culture should take a place in the general cultural
development of the world with politics, the professional movement and cooperation”...
“The Conference believes that in both science and art the proletariat will demonstrate
independent creativity."

In the resolution of the First Russian Conference of Proletarian Cultural-
Educational Organizations, convened in September 1918, this idea was supported by
crossed out more clearly with the words: “cultural and educational movement”
among the proletariat must take an independent place next to the political
‘Chetical and Economic Movement’.

Now this truth has become a commonplace not only for the milkmen of Proletkult,
but also for the broad proletarian masses. You will find it in every resolution on military issues.
itros cultural and educational activities; finally this situation was
enshrined in the resolution of the Second All-Russian Congress of Professional Fighters
call It says: “the bocialist revolution confronted the proletariat with
poison of the most important tasks in the share of building a new life. In parallel and in connection
with the revolutionization of economic relations, the working class as the bearer ›
socialism, must begin to create a proletarian culture, to replace the bourgeois.
zhuaznoy, to prepare the broad masses for the full implementation of socialist
sky system. The dictatorship of the proletariat, giving the working class the opportunity to
to use all the cultural acquisitions of humanity, puts forward already in
Currently, a new cultural and creative form of movement in the person of Prodetkul-
TOR".

Everything that has been said clearly shows those who do not follow the proletarian
movement that a new stream flowed into the mighty river of proletarian struggle, he
child is more powerful, brighter and more joyful than the previous two.

p.

What is the task butwhat movement of the proletariat? Development of proletarian
culture, so that the proletariat can arm itself with new knowledge, organize
©your feelings through #n060th art and transform your everyday relationships
niya in 060% spirit, truly proletarian, i.e. collectivistic; for this
gaps, the proletariat must comprehend all the cultural achievements of previous
knees, critically perceive them and process them in the crucible of your class
“<knowledge. Thus, the task of the cultural and educational movement is disintegrating
is given in two parts: the critical assimilation of the old bourgeois culture and the creation
new proletarian culture.

In its first part, the task boils down to giving the proletariat the opportunity to
the opportunity to become acquainted with all the cultural heritage passed on to him
from the old world. Until now, the proletariat, due to political and economic
conditions was not allowed to these values, and yet there are such. values,
which can be used by him in building a new life. From achievements" -
tions of bourgeois culture were removed, except for the proletariat, and other layers of 00-
tsstvo: medical-bourgeois peasantry, milk-bourgeois working intellectual
hentsia, etc. In order to take possession of this inheritance, the Workers' and Peasants' Government
education creates national institutions, in particular the People's Mission
riat of Enlightenment, where a lot of organizational work is going on for this mastery
as a consequence. In their work, national institutions naturally whitewash
nod and satisfy the demands of all the working masses, mainly peasants,
masses, which in their numbers significantly exceed the pro-
tariat and, in turn, create their own cultural values, not always sovia*
givers with proletarians. In this grandiose work, representatives of the communist
whose proletariat involuntarily has to depend on the mood of the petty-bourgeois
peasantry, which inevitably delays the scope of the work itself and suppresses
speaks of its purely proletarian character. For the purpose of strict coordination pa-
Photos throughout the entire territory of the state government institutions
6 PROLATAR CULTURE. No. 7-8

forced to hastily, sometimes even with full consciousness of unprepared
the importance of the matter, to set and decree it in accordance with the workers’ and peasants’ demands
millets. Engage in work in the field of cultural, purely creative, and cultural affairs"
In a purely proletarian way, these institutions at this moment of transition cannot:
the area of ordinary educational work is too large, even in the light
revolutionary Marxism, and the influence of the petty-bourgeois Slovak state
giftva.

In its second part, the task is reduced primarily to cultural creativity.
chesical ‘work, that is, to the reorganization of science and art (poetry, painting,
schooling, music, theater, etc.) on new purely proletarian, collective
istic principles. Undoubtedly, the proletariat will take advantage of the values of the pro-
of the past, but in his construction he will find a new form that harmonizes and merges -
with new content, for which the values of the inheritance will only be
own building material. Until now, in all areas, inevitably, gentlemen
There are bourgeois-developed methods of thinking about proletarian experience,
this must be overcome; and the proletariat must carry out this work itself,
entirely on their own, without cooperation with other labor elements
cops of Soviet Russia, nalirimer, peasants, see. For this work you need
create conditions that would contribute to the disappearance of the environment itself
proletariat of his petty-bourgeois prejudices, so that his creativity is not tolerated
was mozed due to the influence on the work of other groups of the population and in its development
was of a purely prometarian character. This creative work, or how we
we usually put it in the laboratory, it is impossible to agree exactly and completely
with the principle of decretion; creativity does not always fit into certain
the framework allocated by one or another decree, especially the creativity of young people in the classroom
a class that has just entered into life, looking for a newholding, new
forms and’new ways in reorganizing life; especially proletarian creativity
cannot fit within the framework of decrees dictated by the interests of 666% of workers
income layers of the population. If bourgeois culture dominates society
even to this day, the proletariat strives to develop its values, owning the property
with which he could crush the influence of bourgeois culture and put a bridge on it
its proletarian, socialist, universal culture, because
under socialism the class division of society will disappear;

The above considerations provide sufficient material to be able to
distinguish between purely educational work on a national scale, under non-
mediocre pressure, influence and even with the cooperation of broad labor
masses for mastering the cultural values of the sweaty centuries, from the work of cultural
creative, exclusively proletarian, direction in its collection’ and
creative impulse to find new content and new forms of work, in
in a certain sense, isolated from the influence of other strata of society and little subject to
given at this stage of regulation on a national scale. If
in the first part the task is reduced to the direct satisfaction of cultural
requests of the entire workers' and peasants' state, then in the second part the task of the ogre"
limited by the proletariat, and at first even within these limits it narrows
to certain layers of the proletariat, namely layers of the industrial proletariat,
putting talented workers in the foreground within these limits in order to form
Of these, the main militant core is for proletarian culture. But here we come
Now onto a new issue—organizational. ^

etc.

What is the organizational problem? From what priipips and iots-
What should we rely on when solving this problem?

; The Bolsheviks, in their disputes with the Mensheviks, always pointed out that social-demo-
kratiya is a party not just of the proletariat, but of the conscious proletariat, and in
at one time they opposed me in the most decisive mannerNshevik
attempts to create a broad workers' party. The Bolsheviks understood that social

s democracy must be the leader of the broad proletarian masses, raise
No. 7—5: PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 7

Oh

their consciousness to the required socialist height, and not descend to the level of
attention to social tasks by the politically backward masses. Isto-
The movement of the revolutionary socialist movement has more than once raised the question: in depth
or the movement should be directed broadly, and we Bolsheviks always
focused not so much on expanding the work, but on deepening it and giving
her socialist purity, especially in the first moments. And only when
the prolegariat has singled out a fairly strong layer of the conscious proletariat, the movement
The situation began to quickly expand in breadth.

This historical experience and the underlying principle that social
democracy cannot rely on the elements and drag at the tail of the movement, we are
Rem as something positive, historically justified. In construction Span-
cult, we are also convinced that the task of building proletarian culture in this
This moment must be concentrated in the hands of the advanced proletariat, namely
industrial, production proletariat, which is clearly emphasized as
literature of Proletkults, and in the resolution of the Second All-Russian Congress of Pro-
trade unions, which specifies what trade unions are like.
class workers' organizations must ortanically enter into the work of the Proletkul-
com, concentrating there all their activities on developing proletarian issues
cultural culture and subjecting it to the influence and direction of industrially organized
working masses. This limitation is historically inevitable at the moment!

The working class consists of several groups: the industrial proletariat,
craftsman, trade employee, etc. n. In these groups, sometimes quite far
distant, class psychology develops at a different pace, and the degree of
The intensity of bourgeois ideology among these groups also varies. Everyoneclear
the difference in the psychology of two proletarian groups, for example, metalheads and
cashiers. The metalworker is a typical representative of the proletariat and in his consciousness
ity is significantly superior to the more experienced clerk, who is thoroughly
imbued with the imitation of the bourgeoisie. Due to the nature of my work
sell as much as possible and as quickly as possible, the clerk is forced to be kind to everyone
buyer, must charm him with both appearance and manners, especially this requirement
comes from the saleswomen. If the clerk's trade is slow and he
does not know how to attract a buyer, the capitalist denies him a place, as
useless and unnecessary. At all costs, the clerk must work out
qualities required by the capitalist to win and maintain his place under
capitalist sun. We know these orderly qualities, and we
We ourselves often laugh at them as a bad imitation of the aristocracy
and the bourgeoisie in their external manners. This phenomenon is an inevitable companion to trade.
of capital.

Let's take a doorman, whose task in the old days was to
with a clean-shaven chin or a well-groomed beard, in an embroidered livery, it is important
but respectfully, depending on the rank of the visitor, open and close the doors,
serve fur coats and galoshes.

It is clear that the overwhelming majority of these groups of the proletariat have a purely
proletarian ideology is immeasurably less than that of the metalists. The same thing is possible
to say about the craftsmen, alive with the hope of going out into the world, into business owners.*

And it is quite natural that the proletariat cannot entrust the construction of its
culture to these groups, he transfers it to the industrial proletariat as more
conscious. In the “Plan for the Organization of Proletkult” this is expressed as follows:
way: “if the cultural-revolutionary line of Proletkult depended on
level of the unconscious broad masses, Proletkult could not single out among
cultural and creative class process and organize it into a harmonious whole
pure forms and tendencies of the new culture, could not give the masses the trueleadership in this sense."

The final phrase of this quote, and the name: “class spirit and character
Proletkult can only be based on deep penetration of the conditions
life and everyday life, which are little accessible to those coming from outside”—answers also
another organizational question: shouldn’t Proletkulg end its existence?
formation as a free association, and merge with common state institutions
‘in PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ’ No. 7-8

niyami. Since we are currently making certain distinctions even among pro-
letariat, then it is completely clear that the proletariat, without losing touch and contact with the general
government agencies, retains its full independence,
as an organization with its own special creative tasks.

We like to compare proletkults to laboratories. With well-equipped
Bathroom chemical plants have laboratories in which creative
work to find ways to produce the produced products faster, better and cheaper
factory product. Work in the laboratory is free from the conditions of production at the factory,
the improvements obtained in it are introduced and consolidated in the factory
©Tosobe produces. This is the position of Proletkult in relation to departments
Public Education. His laboratory creative work is free from those de-
crags, which are carried out in the matter of out-of-school education in general
gift scale, but all its achievements must be used by departments
Public Education, as a factory, uses the achievements of laboratories. \

Proletkulgy and Departments of National Education, just like the Commission
riat of Labor and the All-Russian Council of Trade Unions or Central
The Committee of the Communist Party and the Council of People's Commissars are essentially different
ny bodies of the proletarian dictatorship, and the Proletkults must be treated
with more love and care, remembering that this is a young, pale green
grass just emerging from under the snow.

“It’s still early spring. Maybe the frost will hit, But like snowflakes, like
early violets cleared awayshook the earth, the first flowers of proletarian culture" -
wrote Comrade A. V. Lunacharsky on the occasion of the First Conference of Pegrograde
Proletkult.

And we will add to these poetic words, as a lesson to skeptics and the unconscious,
shim. the pulse of the new movement: “Comrades, do not tear, do not destroy these snowdrops
and violets, but take care and cherish them, so that the ashy and bloody earth
covered with the beauty of flowers... so that the dictatorship of the proletariat, economic and political
tic, was entrenched in a cultural dictatorship.”

At one time, a great astronomer, physically defeated by his enemies,
said: “But still it (the earth) moves.” No matter how cold it is for the proletarian idea
culture has turned, we calmly, with the consciousness of historical inevitability,
we say: “the idea of proletarian culture has entered into life, it is strong, people will come to it
even her current opponents, and they will also sing 66.”

E ] Valeryan Polyansky.

Essays on organizational science.

What is organizational science *).
. 1. Unity of the organizational point of view.
but

In all the struggle of mankind with the elements, this is power over nature.
Power is the relationship of the organizer to the organized. Humanity is moving step by step
acquires, conquers it; this means that it organizes the world step by step,—or-
organizes for himself, in his own interests. This is the meaning and content of its age-old
labor.

Nature resists him, spontaneously, blindly, with the terrible power of her darkness.

`noah, chaotic, but countless and endless army of elements. To win

*) This is the first article in a planned series of systematic essays on the general organization
c of ion science.

L 7-5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 9

Yes, humanity must organize itself into a tiresome army. And it gets organized
over the course of centuries, forming labor collectives, from small tribal communities to the first
everyday era Before the modern cooperation of hundreds of millions of people, they still
unconscious, but quite real.

If humanity organized the world for itself only with those forces and means
properties that it possesses by nature, it did not haveabout advantages over others
living beings who also fight for themselves with the rest of nature. In his
In its work it uses tools that it takes from the same external nature. This—
the basis of his victories, what gave and gives him increasing superiority over the most
strong and formidable giants of elemental life, which sets him apart from her kingdom.

But no less, and an even more difficult task for humanity is to organize itself,
<in your efforts, your activities, in an individual and in a team. In complexity
elemental forces are hidden in the human body and society, blind and contradictory.
fiercely colliding, sometimes menacing and destructive, like the forces of nature, dark
mothers of humanity. Fate" made us witnesses of the most destructive,
the most monstrous in its grandeur explosion of these forces; but he speaks about them clearly
and all history, a chain of centuries, drenched in fire and blood, full of the horrors of hunger, exhausting
hard labor and powerlessness of millions next to the parasitic luxury ‘and cruel
by the domination of a few. The self-organization of humanity is a struggle with its inner
morning spontaneity, biological and social; in it the tools are no less necessary
useful for him than in the fight against external nature, of course, other instruments of or-
organization With great difficulty and great sacrifices, humanity developed them,

`The first such tool was the word. Through the word everything is orthoganized
<conscious cooperation of people: a call to work, in the form of a request or request
testimony uniting employees; distribution of roles in labor between them;
indication of the sequence and connection of their actions, encouragement to work, concentration
destroying their strength; a warning where inconsistency begins; remaining
new work, regrouping, changing the direction of efforts - all this is accomplished:
is expressed in verbal form. Giant collectives are created by the power of words, giant
Russian collectives are controlled by it. People of the twentieth century saw how a powerful word is insignificant
the greatest personality sent millions of people into an unprecedented hell of iron and dynamite,
for murder and youl. It is not for nothing that ancient thinking, deep in its naivety,
gave rise to the myth of the creation of the world with words. believed in the limitless power of words
over the elements: waters and mountains, storms and thunderstorms, illness and death had to obey
to be given to the one who knew and pronounced the proper word... The organizing power of the tool
was fetishized and generalized to the whole world; but she did not escape the primitive
consciousness, as it mostly eludes the modern one. '

Another weapon, more complex and subtle, is the idea. An idea is always an organi-
` nationalization scheme, whether in the form of a technical rule or a scientific one
knowledge, or artistic concept, whether expressed in words or other
kami, or images of art. The technical idea directly and obviously coordinates
people's ore efforts; scientific—does the same thing only more indirectly and in a more
on a large scale, as a weapon of the highest order, for which a vivid illustration—
scientific technology of our era; an artistic idea serves as a living means
cohesion of the team in the unity of perception, feeling, mood, educates
unit for ‘her life in society, preparing the organizational elements of the
lective, introducing them into his internal structure. Ancient thinking was vaguely aware
the organizational role of ideas, seeing in them guidelines from above; newest
in most cases, this consciousness has also been lost.

The third weapon is social norms. All of them are custom, law, morality,
personalities—establish and formalize the relationships of people in a team, consolidate
their connections. And these norms were understood by the concrete consciousness of patriarchal times
as the covenants of ancestors or commands of the gods, photized ancestors,
arranging collective life; and the latest abstract thinking, not pro-
without understanding the social-organizational nature of these norms, he looked for them. basics in the shower
significant experiences of an individual.

Where does humanity get such tools as speech, ideas, norms? Not from
external nature, as material tools, and from one’s own, from one’s own
70: PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-8

activities and cutsIvany, from my experience. All these are products of organizacil
experience carried out by humanity over thousands of years. Tin is not an empty phrase,
a social crystal of ideas and aspirations transmitted in a team
from person to person; and so are other, more complex forms of ideology.

In the general scheme, the entire content of human life unfolded before us,
and now we can summarize. The old teacher of scientific socialism, Engels,
expressed them with the formula: production of people, production of things, production
ideas. Hidden in the term "production" is the concept of an ortanizing action. And we
let’s make the formula more precise: organization of extraneous forces of nature, organization of man:
Chinese forces, organization of otitis media.

What happened? Humanity has no other activity other than organizational
No, there are no other tasks other than organizational ones.

How do we not see destructive work, disorganization at every step?
genic tasks? Yes, but this is a special case of that trend. If society
classes, groups collide destructively, disorganizing each other, that is
because each such collective strives to organize the world and humanity
for yourself, in your own way. This is the result of the separateness, isolation of the organizing
forces—the result of the fact that their unity, their common, harmonious organization, has not yet been achieved.
nization. This is a struggle between organizational forms.

So, the conclusion is confirmed: all interests of humanity are organizational ones.
And from here it follows: there cannot and should not be a different point of view on life and the world,
except organizational. And if this is not yet recognized, it is only because it has

The culture of people has not yet completely emerged from the shells of fetishism that have shrouded it,
development paths,

AI

Okay, so be it: we, people, are organizers of nature, ourselves, our experience;
we will consider our practice, knowledge, artistic creativity
from an organizational point of view. But spontaneous nature, is it really an organizer?
Wouldn’t it be naive subjectivism or poetic fantasy to use
To 66 events and actions the same point of view?

Yes, of course, nature is the great first ortanizer; and man himself is only one thing
from EU organized works. The simplest living cell, visible only
with thousands of increases, the complexity and perfection of the organization is far from
surpasses anything that man can organize. Ok is a student of nature and bye
still very weak.

But if the phenomena of life can be studied and understood as organizational
processes, is there not, besides them, a vast area of the “inorganic” world,
dead nature, which is not orthanized? Yes, life is a small part of everything -
Lennoy, lost in the ocean of infinity; but non-living, “non-organic” is not
means unorganized, This old delusion reigned until recently
over the thought of humanity precisely due to its organizational weakness; it's at"
walks towards the end. \

Science is now breaking down the impenetrable boundaries between living and dead things.
family, bridges the gap between them. The world of crystals discovered ‘typically’
properties of orthanized bodies, which were previously considered to be exclusively characteristic
representing the kingdom of life: a crystal in a saturated solution maintains its
form through “metabolism, substances”; he restores her damage, as if “healing”
healing the wound"; under certain conditions of supersaturation, it “multiplies”, etc. d. And connections
the kingdoms of crystals with the rest of inorganic nature are such that they cannot
There is no talk of fundamental, unconditional differences. Among the liquids there is
formations, the so-called “flowing crystals”, which have most
high crystalline properties. And Lehmann’s supposed “living crystals” obtained
at known temperatures from para-azooxybrown-ethyl ether, are capable
not only reproduce by division and “copulate”, v.-6. merge in pairs
but also to feed and grow, taking matter inside oneself, and move towards
similarity to amoebas: all the essential features that usually define lower
unicellular organisms.
L№ 7-5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 11

Viroch, and a simple drop of [robe on a leaf of grass in a supersaturated atmosphere-
atmosphere grows and reproduces by division. And its surface layer, physical
chemically similar to an elastic film, “protects” its shape like thin elastic
the membranes of many living cells, for example, bacteria.

It would be strange to consider “nb organized” slender, titanically stable...
beautiful systems of suns with their planets, formed over myriads of centuries. But for
modern theory is the same, in its type, the structure of each atom, with its
striking stability, based on immeasurably fast, cyclically closed
active movements of its elements.

Complete unorganization is a concept without meaning. This is essentially the same
that naked nothingness. In it one must accept the absence of any connection; but what is not
no connection, cannot provide any ®resistance to our effort;.
and only in resistance do we learn about the existence of things; therefore, for us here
there is no existence. And one can only think of absolute incoherence verbally,
no real, life-giving provision can be put into these words, because
that an absolutely incoherent representation is not a representation at all, and in general
nothing,

Even the imaginary emptiness of world space—the world ether—is not without
lower, elementary ortanization: and it has resistance; only
with limited speed the movement penetrates through the carrier; and when the speed increases
the growth of a moving body, then, according to the ideas of modern mechanics, it grows
and this resistance, at first with elusive slowness, Then faster and faster; and
at the limit equal to the speed of light, it becomes completely insurmountable—
infinitely great. at

Thus, based on the facts of experience and the ideas of modern science, we inevitably
we move towards the only holistic, the only monistic understanding of everything
Lennoy It appears before us like an endlessly unfolding fabric:
‘forms of different types and levels of ortization, from elements unknown to us:
ether to human collectives and star systems. All these forms, in their mutual
ny entanglements and mutual struggle, in their constant changes, shapethey call peace
howling organizational process, unlimitedly fragmented in its parts, not
discontinuous and inseparable in its whole.

AND; Unity of organizational methods. `

This is the organizational point of view. It is completely simple and in simplicity
its immutable. What does it give us, what paths does it reveal?

It would be of little use to practice and theory if matters were reduced to philosophies.
Sophistic position: “everything is an organization.” For practice and theory you need
and methods are important. The conclusion regarding them is clear: “all methods are organizational -
le". Hence the task: to understand and study all and any methods as organizational
new This can be a big mess, but on one condition: that the organ--
nization methods were amenable to scientific generalization.

If organizational methods in one area were the same, in another - different
some, completely different from them, in the third—third, for example, in the organization of things,
i.e. technology that has nothing to do with the methods of organizing people,
i.e. economy, or organization of experience, i.e. world of ideas, to master them would be
It will not be any easier if all of them are designated as ortanizational.
It is completely different if, according to research, it turns out that it is possible to establish between them
connection, kinship, which can be subordinated to general laws, then the study of this connection,
these laws allow people to best master these methods and practices
develop them numerically—and will become the most powerful instrument of any practice and
what theory? What is it really, the first or the second?

The deepest difference we know in nature is the difference between
spontaneity and consciousness, between the blind action of the forces of nature and plan-
numbered efforts of people. Here we should expect the greatest heterogeneity of me-
that PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. ‘7—5

tods, their greatest irreducibility to unity. This is where the best place to start isle-
Loving.

First of all, it comes across the facts of the subordination of man to nature
in techniques and methods of organizational activities.

Nature organizes the resistance of many livingof organisms to the action of
loda; covering them with fluffy fur, feathers or other low heat conductors
shells. A person achieves the same results in the same way, arranging
Hebe some warm clothes. Spontaneous development adapted the fish to movement in water,
having developed a certain shape and structure of her body. Man gives the same shape
©to your boats and ships, and it also reproduces the three-dimensional structure of the fish skeleton: the keel
and the shiantouts will accurately match. her spine and ribs. Through
“sails” move the seeds of many plants, animals with flying
onkami, etc.; man has mastered the sail method and widely applies it to sailing
crumple history. Cutting and piercing natural tools of animals, for example, fangs
stones and claws of predators, were probably an imitation of the knives and spears of the first
"'everyday savages, etc. \In the histories of culture one can find how many
some illustrations.

The very possibility of imitation is, in essence, sufficient proof
that between the spontaneous organizing work of nature and the conscious planning
numbered - there is no fundamental, insurmountable difference between people. Can't
to be imitated where there is nothing in common *). But even brighter and more convincing are you
this basic community sets foot where ‘man, not conforming to nature, develops
reveals the same organizational features that he later finds in her
cognition.

The entire history of the development of anatomy and physiology is filled with discoveries.
in a living body such mechanisms, from the simplest to the most complex,
which were previously independently invented by people. Yes, sk-
years, the human motor apparatus represents a system of various fishes
chats, in which there are two blocks (for one cervical and one eye muscle);
but levers were used by people to move heavy objects thousands of years before
this has been clarified by anatomists and blonies for many hundreds of years. Suction and natne-.
“body pumps with valves were installed long before the opening of completely similar
nogo with them apnarata of the heart. Also musical instruments with resonanceorami,
0 sounding chimes were invented much earlier than the construction
tion and functions of the vocal organs of animals; likewise, in the highest degree
it is unlikely that the first collecting glasses were made in imitation
lens of the eye **).. And the structure of electrical ortans ‘in fish with
by them, was investigated much later than physicists built on the same principle
capacitor banks.

These are the first conspicuous examples from one limited area,
in which they could be taken many times more. But here's a comparison
of another kind: social economy ‘in humans and in higher insects. Oh imitate
There can, of course, be no talk of any difference between them. Meanwhile, in the methods of production
leadership and forms of cooperation, the parallelism is striking. Construction of complex
long, dissected dwellings among termites and ants, cattle breeding among myotis mur-
branches that contain grass aphids in the form of dairy cattle are well-known facts;
embryos of agriculture have also been found in some American species: weeding
herbs around suitable cereals; it is very likely that this happened to people too

*) “... This is sufficient proof of the fundamental homogeneity of organizational
functions of man and nature: an idiot cannot imitate the creativity of a genius, a fish is red-
to the speaker, cancer to the flight of the swan; imitation. everywhere limited by the framework of general properties, the framework
kami of homogeneity" (Tektology, part 1°p. 23)

**) Nature separately “invented” a collective lens for animals and plants
new kingdom. In our case, the lens serves to collect rays onto a light-sensitive network.
the part of the eye that perceives the image of objects formed by the intersection of rays. In "new"
stretching moss, a ke-like lens of cancer cells collects rays on chlorophyll grains,
which, at the expense of light energy, are produced for the plant by starchy substances (substances from
‘carbon dioxide of the air combined with water.
7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 13
the beginning of agriculture. It is also well established that the cultivation of edible fungi inside
ri murareed grass by leaf-eating ants in Brazil. Wide cooperation
| the nasty division of labor among social insects is again known to everyone;
favda, there the division of labor is mainly “physiological”, i.e. connection
mine directly with a special device for the ortanism of different groups of workers, in particular
Seam it, p.; but it should be noted that people have an initial division of labor
10 namely physiological, based on the difference between male and female organs
vma, adult, child and senile. General nature of the organization of ants
iriarchalns - tribal life; at the same time, the mother is the leader of the work
and”, not by power in one’s community, but by its living, blood connection; there is a lot of basis
and we can assume that this was also the role of the ancestress in primitive forms.
matriarchy among people. There is, however, an authoritarian division of labor, according to
at least embryonic, in the form of so-called “slavery” in many ants;
termites, according to some indications, have leaders among the caste, warriors
1i—officers" and the "soldiers" subordinate to them. Finally, there are many reasons
federally assume that ants have some communication methods that allow them to transmit
quite complex data, which indicates the “articulate” nature of these me-
Dov; but it is not known whether this is sound “speech” or tactile, in which signs
various touches of the breasts are compressed; the latter seems more likely.

This is the organizational and cultural parallelism created under the influence of
consistent development of both sides: it can be considered beyond doubt that those common
the races from which humans and insects evolved were not social at all
sutures. .

°— So, the ways of spontaneous-organizational creativity of nature and methods of co-
man's challan-orthakization work can and should be subject to scientific
communication. However, the old thinking drew its “insurmountable” boundaries
only along this line, but established a number of other differences, “absolute” ones.
Whose essentially. One of these differences is between "kiva" and "dead" nature.
And—we already had to consider, and it turned out that from an organizational point of viewand
However, it is not at all intransitive, that. it is a difference only in stan-
lack of organization. And we saw completely parallel ortanization
readings on either side of this line are the processes of “metabolism”, “dividing”
knife”, “restoration of the damaged form” in the inorganic world, etc. And.
It is also important to cite other striking illustrations of this basic
integrity. Converging planetary systems on one rung of the inorganic ladder
osky forms, the structure of the atom as modern science represents it—
the other, represent a characteristically centiuralistic time: one, “central”
Milex———The Sun, the positive electric nucleus of the atom—is. according to pre-
essence that determines the movements and relationships of other parts and the whole.
In the kingdom of life, the centralist type is one of the most common; enough
remember the role of the brain in animal organisms, rulers in authoritarian societies
nal organizations, queens of bees and ants, etc. n. Another, very ras-
wounded type - a connection that is hard or elastic, but generally more stable
shells with liquid, more mobile or less stable content: form
news of probably most of the planets in the universe or a simple drop of water,
Which the shell is formed by a surface layer with its special properties;
also a form of structure common in plants and not uncommon in animals
current for many ortanisms covered by the exoskeleton.

Moving to an even wider scale, we find the most common
in nature, the method of maintaining or restoring equilibrium: periodic:
mebakia or "waves". ETS is like a general model for countless processes
organic world, both directly observed and accepted
Because of theoretical necessity; waves in water, sound vibrations.
ear, thermal vibrations in solids, electrical, light and “invisible”
‚ from Tertsev to X-ray; and at the other end of the “rotation” universe
bare bodies can also be represented as complex periodic oscillations
... But this model is just asis indisputably applicable in the area of ​​life; almost
its processes are periodically oscillatory in nature. These are the pulse and

#30

24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. №7 -8

breathing, work and rest of each organ, wakefulness and sleep of the body. Sme
generations represents a series of overlapping one another and I
“pulse of life” in centuries, etc. n. }
Most philosophers and a significant part of psychologists accept up to
since then another unbreakable boundary between the “material” and “spiritual”
kind, or between “physical” and “hesychimic”. It would be possible for me to be here again
assume complete irreducibility to the unity of organizational methods. Ody
philosophers and psychologists recognize the same thing, to varying degrees and under different names.
parallelism of ischemic phenomena with physical nervous processes. But a couple.
Lelism means precisely that the connection of elements and combinations on one side
corresponds to the connection on the other, i.e. basic unity of organizational methods.
could a “mental image”—perception or ideation—represent m
physical object”, if the parts of one were not connected in the same way as the parts of another]
And, for example, the same oscillatory rhythm of work and rest, which is characteristic of
chemical processes in the body, is found in parallel in the ou
skikh; and often it is observed for mental ones and where it is not yet possible to
to state it for physiological changes, - hey, let’s lie down in
"will of attention." And any product of “spiritual” creativity is a scientific theory, according to
an ethical work, a system of legal or moral norms—has its own
architecture, represents a dismembered set of parts that perform
various functions, mutually complementing each other: principles of organization
as for every physiological organism. |
Thus, the unity of organizational methods is outlined everywhere - in mental
physical complexes, in living and dead nature, in the work of spontaneous
conscious activity of people. Until now, it has not been definitely installed, and
studied, not studied: there was no universal organizational scienceAnd. Teno]

her time has come.
®

1. The path to organizational science.
No.

Although this science did not exist until now, its main point of view
arose at the very beginning of the life of mankind - along with the beginning of speech’
thinking.

The first words-concepts were the designation of human labor actions -
the designation violne is natural, because these are screams of effort, ore
interjections. When they were born in the absence of such effort,
razhahi' desire, call to it or living provision of that. them you
It was, therefore, everything that reminded him vividly enough. Here, for example
the primary root “rat” which in Aryan languages means “to break”:
our words “gate”, “strike”, “raz” and the particle “raz” in the verb also originate from it
represented, probably, just a growl that was torn or inflicted
blow; he could perform on stage not only during this act or kat: expression prizes
to him, and in a variety of conditions that have a connection with him: and in the form of evil]
or at the thought of it, at the sight of the weapon being struck, or the result
tov ‘blow, i.e., something broken, broken, etc. n. All this is untrue,
was designated, or rather, marked with the same sound: the original unstr
diversity of meaning of root words, thanks to which each of them could become the original
point of further development of thousands of words, with more and more QI]
but also with ever more specific meanings. *

thinking about nature: a basic metaphor. Motaphora, i.e., literally, “no!
tion", generally refers to the application of a word denoting one phenomenon to
that phenomenon that has something in common with the first, for example, when a poet calls
“bloody” dawn, “labkova” spring, “formidable” sea.” Distant ancestor 'Aryans

peoples I knew what a metaphor was, but in the most natural way
the same root “rat”, chord observed or represented some abbreviation

`
No. 7-8 PROLETARIC CULTURE. 15

`

the action of elemental forces: a rock that breaks and crushes everything in its fall,
“storm breaking trees, etc. A spontaneous action was denoted by the same word,
yoke and human. This is the main metaphor. Without her people couldn't talk
about external nature, and therefore, to develop concepts about it: thinking
about the world would be impossible.
In the basic metaphor, humanity has stumbled through its deepest crisis.
the jaws of your experience: through the border between yourself and your eternal gate - the elements.
The main metaphor is the first embryo and image of the unity of the organizational point
‚ view of the universe. The word was a tool for organizing social and human
activities; meanwhile, it began to be used in combining experience according to natural
tion to the activities of the outside world: both were fundamentally generalized
in an organizational sense.
Primitive thinking was not a system, it was not a “worldview”:
<lova-concepts too tesio were still associated with direct actions
- And but were thought of in their own special connection, were not specially grouped between the ss
into one whole. This special organization of theirs began to be created ‘at a higher level
‚ penalty of development, namely when in life itself thought has already begun to separate
from physical labor effort: when the division of people into management appeared
organizers and performers, organizers and those being organized. Where one ponders,
decides and orders, and the other carries out, there, as it were, two poles are formed:
`the pole of thought and words, on the one hand, the pole of muscular work, on the other. Hand-
°—the driver, for example the patriarch or military leader, had to fold
in your head there is a flame of often a very complex and extensive matter, consisting of a mass
actions that will be performed by other people subordinate to him; in this
plan, naturally, mental images or concepts were already connected to each other,
but carried actions, which were then carried out separately, although depending
from them. In this way, an independent organization of thoughts, mental
as a system, what is not quite accurately called a worldview, more correctly
flax---worldview.

At the same time, the initial unity of the organizational point of view is not only withsecurity
begins, but still intensifies. The organization of thinking was determined, of course, by the ortho-
_ the nationalization of labor, for which it served as a means. And for the field of work, typical
“there was precisely a combination of organizing and performing action in their indistinct

broken connection. All actions in general were conceived according to this type, not only co-
social-labor, but also human individual and even all spontaneous.
"Where the action is. person, was not due to the indication of another person—organization
° congestion, it was accepted that he had indicated to himself, had come to organize for himself
° for; In this way, there were two sides to him—organizational or leadership.
whether performing or passive; the first seemed to be the soul, the second the body.
The same applied to every complex of nature's verses: animal, plant,
a stone, a stream, a celestial body, everything that was perceived as something effective -
and nothing else existed for primitive thinking at all - all this is mental
Lenko was ortanized according to the “spirit-body” scheme. Directly and naively admitting
There was, therefore, a general unity of the organizational method. And the method itself
thinking, as we see, took) ready from the same place where it itself came from, that is, from
social practice, from the sphere of production.

On this basis, many misconceptions become quite understandable and natural.
The knowledge and “superstitions” of our distant ancestors and modern savages. This is, for example,

measures, belief in spells, in the power of magic words, their ability to act on
objects of external nature, change the course of natural phenomena. Human actions
actions are determined by words, namely by instructions or orders of the organization"
tora; if it is accepted that the organization of elemental actions is the same in itself -
then it is obvious that they too obey the words, but, of course, the words of the competent
organizer and said in a “proper, intelligible manner in order to
an object or element that needs to be influenced. Not for nothing in Russian
“peace” actually means community: for. naive consciousness both in the community and
and in everythingworld—the connections are the same, the relationships are the same, ETS is an inevitable step in the development
ties of organizational consciousness.

\:

Oh

m.
| 131
m PROLETARIAN CULTURE. L 7-8

The original unity of the organizational point of view is preserved throughout

throughout the enoch of authoritarian life. Their world views take the form of “religions”,
and these religions represent the structure of the world either according to the patriarchal-tribal type,
or feudal: in earlier religions there were separate clans. gods then
ilemevkys uniting them; in the more developed ones there is a multi-dimensional chain of gods, of which
of which the smaller ones are vassals, the larger ones are their overlords; and in ^
at the head stands the unifying god-sovereign, at. than the gods Mulched often even
pay tribute or sacrifice to the higher bots. Practical meaningful connections
people with bots is precisely that they manage people equally *
and things and can, within the entire area, prescribe to things the actions they desire.
beneficial and beneficial for people. The holy kitties of these religions, for example,
serve the Hebrew Bible, - represent the encyclopedia of orthakisanionisgo experience
those times. It gives the history of the world and humanity, geography, instructions on technical
in the history of production, in its economy, in the everyday relations of people, in political
according to the Chinese structure, according to the cult, according to Mditsika and Githieka, etc. All this has been forgotten
from our point. vision, . very randomly, as it was compiled and recorded, -
sanitation is mixed with cult and technology, politics with geography and laws
about salmon; but everything is deeply imbued with the basic, ultimate unity of the method. And for-
the laws of nature, and the laws of life, people are considered as completely homogeneous
new organizational prescriptions of divine power; and all knowledge about them is how
its “revelation”, i.e. simply communicated or published these predications. No’
and thoughts that the processes of nature, spontaneous and social life can have
their own laws, different for different areas of experience, that submission
facts, known patterns and people's obedience to authority are more than one thingorder.

Here the growing, crystallizing experience all the time, as if automatically,
is complemented by one scheme: the salt travels daily from east to west,
because this is how it is indicated to him that the disease develops in a certain sequence -
ity, because it fulfills: the corresponding command, etc. under. The widest
the most permanent rules in experience are the immutable predications of the highest
deities. Their immutability is the basis for all people’s confidence in labor
couples, in systematic efforts. Of course, a deity, like any ruler, can
in a separate case, suspend or repeal the operation of the law established by him;
but this will be an exception, a “miracle”, a special intervention, which, of course,
happens very rarely. This concept includes the apparent karushekiya habits
new correctness of life, napfimera, earthquakes, unprecedented epidemics, paradises
devastating floods, etc. Thus, the very idea of regularity is not
undermined by them; the concept of “miracle” serves, as it were, as a guard for its development, rejecting
from her is everything that her still too weak knowledge is able to put into her.

fa

The primary unity of the organizational point of view was based on weak
of human labor-experience and on the homogeneous authoritarian structure of society
stva. Development, overcoming this weakness and creating new social relationships,
led to the disintegration of primary unity, to the fragmentation of experience and to a change in the whole
his connections, ;

The division of labor formed the basis for the transformation of people's social life
in general and thinking in particular. Step by step, specialization increased, which
which narrowed the field of work for an individual, but increased productivity
The efficiency of this work facilitated and accelerated the accumulation of eggs. Blacksmith,
a tailor, a farmer, everyone in the agricultural sector assimilated with greater completeness
methods and conditions of production bequeathed by their ancestors, but little by little,
at first, imperceptibly for himself, and then consciously improved, completed
methods, Even easier and more often, such progress occurred through borrowingvovaniya
in those relations between residents of different regions and countries that have developed
were involved in the exchange of goods generated by the same division of labor. In both cases
In such circumstances, the old organizational point of view could not be maintained; improvement -
<

\
No. 7—8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: 47

bathing techniques, new technical and organizational rules were no longer
scriptures and revelations of the gods: if they were developed independently, this
it was obvious; if they were borrowed from outside, then obey them,
as the orders of other people's bots, was unacceptable, and it was possible to accept
their mother is only useful knowledge, nothing more.

This is how it arose, next to the former religious, sacred, covenantal and conservative
tive, different knowledge, non-religious, secular and progressive. It's natural
way it was collected and accumulated by branches of labor, which included:
knowledge of agriculture, blacksmithing, etc. d. It was transmitted orally and practically,
from parents to children, from masters to students; but as its mass increases
this was made insufficient, it was recorded. and at the same time brought into force.
theme, now of a completely new kind: it was orthoganized in such a way that it was spent
as little work as possible to assimilate and memorize it, according to the principle of “saving
strength." This is the scientific principle: experience has become organized into science, or, more precisely,
into individual sciences. Agricultural knowledge became the material of atronomy, the science of
agriculture, knowledge of blacksmithing - metallurgy, mining - mining sciences
Delia, etc. d. These, as we see, are technical sciences. Their number increased with the development of
the introduction of social labor and the collection of experience in all sectors; by our time
I can count them in hundreds,

You don’t have to think that your technical knowledge is limited to this industry only.
industries and are applicable: the real unity of human labor prevails
above its formal division, and often organizational methods turn out to be
suitable far beyond the boundaries of the area where they were originally developed.
So, for example, to the groundpersonal knowledge included land surveying techniques, 6
On the other hand, methods of calculating time, on the other. Land surveying is absolutely necessary
for the distribution of plots in agriculture and for production work
accounts: the number of seeds required, the quantity of the expected product, etc.
And in countries where higher forms of agriculture developed first,
drowned and fertilized by floods in the valleys of the great rivers - the Nile, the Tigris,
Ivfrata, Indus, Ganges, Yant-tse-kianta - land surveying was all the more necessary
in order to annually restore the boundaries of areas that disappear in spills, However,
Land surveying techniques have not become a simple part of agricultural science.
These techniques are measuring lines, angles, figures, clarifying their mutual connection and
dependence—have also proven to be widely applicable in engineering and construction
in the construction of canals, bridges, locks, big roads, in the construction of all kinds of
kind of buildings, and then in the blacksmith-tool business as a means of installing
pour the exact shape of tools, and in ophthalmic medicine with thin sections: NTI glasses for
glasses, and in painting as the basis of perspective, and in jewelry when polishing
stones, and in military equipment for precise aiming, etc., without end, Methods
the evils spread to all the pleasures of fortune and life, and therefore could not
remain technical and applied knowledge of one branch: under the name of “geometry”
they have become a special science of a general, or “abstract” nature.

Agriculture from the very beginning required the correct calculation of the seasons,
That is "calendar". It is possible to carry out this calculation only using the sun and other lights.
lamas, observing the periodicity of their positions. In the countries of the great river civilizations
tions, these techniques had to be developed to special accuracy, because, with
spontaneous course of spills and their dependence on the degree of solar heating in
upper reaches and throughout the rivers, any even small error in the calculations
In the course of time, it will turn out to be fatal for the mass of people and their economy. Ta-
Thus, in agricultural practice aroseastronomy. But again
its methods and techniques did not remain within agriculture, but found a wide
application in all sectors of social life. Calendar and time keeping
are used everywhere, especially in the technique of communication, where long distances and distances are calculated
were on time; in addition, only by astronomical bodies can one
pour precise directions into the sea or in the steppes; and later learned from them
calculate with accuracy the position in space - latitude and longitude, without which
Long voyages are unthinkable. And with the transition to mass production, and especially
to machine technology, the entire organization of labor requires distribution by hour and,

2
28 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-8

minutes, sometimes seconds; and this applies not only to railway schedules
roads, trams, but also to many chemical and metallurgical processes
-etc. Meanwhile, the exact verification and `coordination of countless hours, according to which
organizing the life and work of people is achieved only astronomically.
Using the same methods, a single universal system of measures was developed—metric: meter
yes. forty-millionth part of the earth's meridian, which is the main
the measure of the entire system; but this measure can only be divided into parts with the help of astro-
nomy and geometry. Consequently, astronomy serves as a tool for organizing
individual industries, and all production as a whole, as a means of orientation
human efforts in time and space.

Counting science is even more general in nature: all labor processes, then
currency and money circulation, the entire economic structure of society is based
on the account of labor force, working hours, quantity of materials, tools, products,
on all kinds of arithmetic, algebraic, statistical calculations.
Here we also have before us, obviously, a general organizational method, in the form
abstract science,

The same applies to other general sciences. You cannot specify such an industry
production, in the organization of which data and mechanical methods would not be used
nicks, physics, chemistry—resistance sciencesthoughts and activities of external nature,
with which every human effort meets. Logic is the science of regulation
eliminating all inflectional discussion and all reflection which,
ultimately, always serves as a medium for subsequent orthodontic efforts.
Life sciences are a tool for controlling coordination, harmonizing all life
the processes of man himself, as a labor force, his domestic animals and crops
rich plants, as well as a tool for technical overcoming and using any
new life in nature. Social sciences are a means of introducing order into
all kinds of cooperation between people, etc. d.

Consequently, the generalizing sciences, in and of themselves, are the embodiment
unity of organizational methods throughout the fragmented collective system
human activity. Despite this, their development did not lead to support
nitiating and strengthening a unifying organizational perspective—completely
on the contrary. Among the increasing specialization of society, they, as they accumulated
masses of material were themselves isolated into separate specialties; and then. they are still
split into smaller specialties; the number of which is now enormous. This
the fragmentation of science complemented and intensified the effect of the fragmentation of technology, so that
the former naive unity of the organizational point of view has disappeared from public=
new consciousness, but no new one was created. The world of thinking turned out to be the same
disparate, avarkhizny, like the world of practice: their mutual connection and the connection of their cha-
in reality, of course, did not cease to exist, but were hidden,
disguised by the formal. disconnection. This is the organizational experience of the drill-
zhuaz world, such is its science.

E Sh!

No specialist can live entirely and exclusively in his specialty.
ciality; his knowledge and experience inevitably go beyond all limits due to connections
and communication with other people. For example, as a consumer, he must have
the concept of a wide variety of products from other branches of labor; as a father and husband—
about consumer family farming and raising children; as a citizen—0
courtaffiliation, etc. But meanwhile, in his specialty he strives
strives for an accurate design of experience, for its definiteness, completeness and harmony,
to his) scientific development, in all other areas he is content with mini-

small, fragmentary knowledge, vague and everyday “philistine”
or “everyday” experience.

This everyday experience plays a huge role in life and serves as a
cement for a disparate, anarchic in its form, collective. And besides
this experience is relatively homogeneous and monotonous for everyone living in the same social
noah environment. For all its unscientific nature, it is distinguished by its enormous breadth and generality.

at
No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ) 19

fullness of its content. It applies to the most diverse aspects of life, to
organizing things, at least in the home, people in the family,
in everyday neighborly and other relations, to the organization of ideas - in the so-called
our “public opinion”, p

In this everyday experience, not complete, but diversified, not scientifically formalized,
om, but practically in life, the naive unity continues to be maintained
organizational point of view, a quiet but deep tendency towards unity
organizational methods.

Its main repository is the national language. True, and in all areas
on the basis of specialization, individual parts are separated, like branches from one tree,
“technical industries—the technical language of a particular profession, the terminology of that
or other science; and the class division of society gives rise to a more general
the phasing of the dialect of the dominant classes and the dialect of the subordinate masses.
But a significant common core of language remains—the essential connection between social groups
and classes, the condition of their sufficient mutual understanding in their practical
“communication. It is in it that the traditions of pro-
past, the experience of millennia.

The common language retains the basic metaphor in its entirety. In it
judgments or proposals” related to human and social activities
posts are organized in exactly the same way as those related toto active
spontaneous events; for example, the “proper” could be a kiva or
inanimate, concrete or abstract, symbol of a body or process, or
"actions; the same verb, the same adjective can appear
as a predicate for all these heterogeneous ones. subject, i.e. like their direct ha-
characteristics. According to the dismemberment of the hitherto dominant patriarchal
all the complexes of external nature, all the abstractions of the ideal world are different
divide the body into men, women and sexually immature children, because there is no
The division of nouns into genders masculine, feminine and
middle This peculiar monism can be easily traced along the entire line of grammar.

No less strong and even more profound is the tendency in the “lexicon” of language, i.e.2
in his verbal material. From any of the primary roots meaning collective
but labor actions, the offspring disperse into thousands of words-concepts; it dis-
extends across all areas of experience, physical and hesychic. From one
and the same Aryan root of the step, the general meaning of which is to break, crush,
through a mass of transitions and intermediate shades, we drank such words as in Russian
“com 4hammer” and “small”, “death” and “sea”, “young” and “slow”; in German
“Meeg” (sea), and “Egae” (earth), “Mota” (killing) and “aa” (soft, gentle),
“Mar (times) and “zoV\uata” (black) etc. under. In all of them, with sufficient
Dovanni reveals one and the same idea, which is of great importance for everything
organizational experience—the idea of dividing into parts, in different types and applications *).
There are many words associated with the Russian verb “to cover”: “bark”, “root”, “box”, ‹ko-
rabble”, “black”, chtortoise”, etc.; there are also many such words in other Aryan languages,
for example, the German “Cog”, the French “<sogbo1e”›—basket, frami. “6zotsezh—bark,
“here”—crust, etc. In all of them the idea of one and the same organizational
reception, in technology and in quiet nature: a connection that is less stable, more
delicate content with a more durable shell, protectingto her from destroying it

significant external influences. In Greek, from the root 0, again widespread
Also in other role-based languages, the words “tottiu”—to build,
chtyohlyu" - builder, "li › - combat formation and order in general, "that craft, use-
art, elyohuou” - child, and a lot of other similar ones. With the greatest heterogeneity
The essence of these concepts, they all contain the general idea of organizing the process **).

*) For example, “small” is the result of division into parts; “young” is associated with the concept “ma-
y” is characterized by the greatest ease of division of the water that forms it; "Eg4e"—
“Earth” means, first of all, soil, soft, loose, easily eroded; chzsV\'ag2"—
black and Russian “semol”, chemola” are associated with the idea of smearing or dirtying things
material that rubs or blurs, etc.

**) That’s why I proposed to designate universal organizational science with the word from
of the same root—“hectology.” Haeckel already used this word, but only in relation to
4 principles of organization of living beings,

20 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-8

Often the word preserves the organizational idea where the fragmented
The identity of the individual has already completely lost it. For example, the orthanizing role of rho
leagues in social life completely eludes ordinary, average consciousness
of our era. Meanwhile, the word itself quite clearly indicates this role, occurring...
dit li`ono from “teYbage” (Latin. to bind), or from “ge]erege” (to collect), Ana-
logically, if not the composition, then the use of the word “soul” in Russian and other
many related languages, if he is careful. trace, gives a clue to one
of the darkest secrets of science and philosophy. It is often used in the sense of “organ-
nizer" or "organizing principle"; for example, such and such a person is the “soul” of such and such
affairs or society, i.e., an active organizer of the progress of work or the life of an organization;,
“love is the soul of Christianity,” i.e. its organizing principle, etc. From this
it is clear that the “soul” is opposed to the body precisely as its organizer or ortho-
the lower beginning, i.e. what tut simple transfer to a person or to others
subjects concepts about a certain form of cooperation - division of an organization -
` torus and executor, or authoritarian labor connection. And this is the reality -
a new solution to the question of how the idea of “soul” originated. Collective genius"
language in this case, as in many others, turned out to be higher than individual ones.
the efforts of scientific specialists, children of a fragmented, anarchic society.

Further, everyday experience is preserved in more complex forms of the so-called
“folk wisdom”: in proverbs, parables, fables, fairy tales, etc.; Many
of which are the expression of the broadest laws of organization in society
and in nature. For example, the proverb “where it is thin, it breaks” is figurative, not scientific.
a true but true expression of the most general law according to which disorganization occurs
nization ‘at all levels of the universe: whatever the whole begins to disorganize
be reduced if only at one point the resistance turns out to be insufficient
compared with the force acting from the outside: the fabric is where it is thinnest;
chain - where there is a weak or rusty link; organization of people—
where its connection is weaker; a living organism - where its tissues are less protected
scientific or philosophical doctrine - where the connection of concepts is more vulnerable to
critics, etc. under. The proverb “strike while the iron is hot” is by no means only
technical rule for blacksmithing; it is the principles of all practice, all
whom organizational and disorganizational affairs; it indicates the need
the duration of using its favorable conditions due to their limited duration
importance and irrevocable significance of their loss. This rule is equally important.
and for the farmer, in relation to the conditions of sowing or harvesting; and for the politician
or strategist - in relation to changing combinations of social forces
or combat; and for an artist or researcher - in the sense of being happy to work
ochetakiya external conditions or psycho-physical state, the so-called...
th "inspiration"; and for the lover, etc.The parable of the twigs that are easily broken
a child wails, and about a broom made of them, which cannot be broken by a strong
a real person is a folk-figurative expression of the universal idea of organization; it
also applies equally to people, things, and ideas. Of course, not everything is
the manifestations of popular wisdom so widely and deeply cover the organizational
experience; but they all relate to him not on a narrowly meaningful scale, but gravitate towards him"
to dissemination through the framework of individual branches of life practice and thought.
However, this monism of “folk tectology” is not able on its own to fight the spiritual
home of specialization and increasingly cedes to him dominance over social
nal consciousness, ‘parallel to the course of technical and ideological progress. The point is
that worldly wisdom is not only unscientific in form, but also deeply stagnant
by its basic tendency, it belongs to the past and strives to preserve it;
in relation to it, specialization acts as a progressive line of life.
However, breaking down naive and conservative monism, it also ‘causes the emergence of
the discovery of a different monism, scientific and progressive, which is vitally higher than her
as much as she herself is above folk tektology.

„No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 21

m TU.

Specialization led to the enormous development of collective human power.
“tests in labors in knowledge. But still it is a limited driver of progress.
Next to the conditions that facilitate and accelerate progress, she concludes
such things slow down; their significance is insignificant at first, but with development
it also increases in later years. era turns into the present, deep pro-
‘a contradiction that costs humanity dearly.

The benefit of specialization is, first of all, saving effort. The employee more than once
'Displays them in different directions, but concentrates them on one; as a result
their effect turns out to be more significant, more precise, more perfect. Since the orth field is
mization experience is narrowed, it is easier to master it; development of skills and acceptance
mov is going faster and more successfully. However, next to the savings withsilt goes and them
‘wastefulness, imperceptible at the first steps, but inevitable from the very beginning, It
‘results from a decrease in the connection of people and the coherence of their experience.

This is primarily and especially clearly revealed in the area of ​​‘language.
Thanks to the disunity of industries, completely homogeneous products receive differences in them.
different names, so the complexity of the language and the energy required to master it for everyone
members of society increase significantly. And this. especially applies to the fact that
This is what is repeated most often in experience and, therefore, appears most often in speech. Yes,
In our language it is said about people “to die”, but about animals “to die” - more
’ partly when it comes to domestic animals, or “to die” - usually about wild ones; about fish
_ eco fishermen say “to fall asleep”, and for crayfish there is even a special term - “to decide”
i.e. stop their characteristic rustling, etc. The most striking thing about this
“in the sense of a plurality of words expressing the ortanization process. "Organ-
“to call” we talk mainly about people and institutions. For products
tov of labor is a general term “to produce”; but its meaning is exactly the same: organic
to reduce certain elements—in this case, elements outside the order——
3 pre-planned combination. But in the construction business the term is different: “build”
for example, house, building; and even in almost every industry there is also a special one,
example, about an iron road - “trove”, about fortifications - “build”, etc. Yaeno;
that “running” a railway means the entire ‘organizational process, which
ry applies here, as can be seen from the fact that the word “build” is used
‘It’s not so natural here; but “produce” or “organize” would sound very
unusual, although it would express the idea no less accurately, and the whole special character of the
‘the cess would be sufficiently indicated by the addition - “the railway.” For products
The expressions “to make”, “irite”, “extract” are also often used.
thread" etc. But, in addition, in narrower industries the same concept is expressed
has a lot of special verbs: dress, for example, “sew”, etc.and what ptsod-
This means not only the mechanical act of sewing, but the entire complex one.
an organizational process in which this is only one of the operations; weapon ‹high-
to draw”, a picture “to draw”, a book “to write”, etc. A number of other words refer
to ideological acts of the same kind, nair., “create” a work of art
depie, “compose” a treatise or ‘textbook, novel or play, “invent” apiarat
(with a touch of - organize for the first time), “discover” the law (organization of facts in connection
certain scheme). Sometimes the designation is taken from the field of concepts of anti-
of a positive nature, related to disortanization: “to break the later”, “to break
"garden" - in the sense of organizing, with proper distribution in the 'projection'
“Answer. The most general term of human practice - "to do" - means simultaneously
It is necessary to both organize and disorganize.

Spontaneous organizational processes are expressed partly in the same words as
‘partly special, different in different scientific fields. These are the physical-chemical
"chemical terms formation", "formation", biological terms chiri-
“identification”, “development”, used with many, changeable shades of meaning.
\In psychology, organizational processes are most often called “associative
nymi". In the social sciences, the terms of construction prevail ("construction
society”, “to set up an enterprise”, etc.); but in the same place, without noticeable difference
22 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 78

with them, the word “organize” is used; it actually belongs to the sphere
technology and in Greek means “to supply with tools.”

Of course, most concepts are not so multiply expressed in words;
but still there is a colossal extra expenditure of energy in the development of speech, and especially in
in the acquisition of language by people are very obvious. Meanwhile, specialization gives rise to
Another contradiction: when industries diverge, the same words acquire
Talot they have different meanings; and when they come into contact, then from here we get
confusion and confusion. An example is the scientific term “competition”. In political’
savings it meansmarket struggle of sellers over the sale of their goods, or
buyers because of its acquisition, when there is no correspondence between demand and supply
position; this is a struggle based on social connection, a struggle that masks
cooperation between members of society who do not work objectively for themselves,
but on the social whole. In biology, the same term means the vital struggle between
organisms due to nutrition, the amount of which in nature is limited for them;
this is how plants in the forest stretch their branches and leaves towards sunlight, the main
source of its energy, and ‘roots as far as possible in the soil, from where it is extracted
some water and the necessary salts, and they will drown each other; this is perfect
other relationships, but, thanks to the common name, they are often not distinguished; and them
displacement became the theoretical basis of an entire school of “Darwinian sociologists”,
transferring the concept of biological struggle to social life.

Specialization itself gave rise to a divergence of methods: living 060c0-
Over the course of their life, individual sectors developed them in different directions. And since
general methods were preserved or even arose independently in them, special
language hid this from people’s consciousness, preventing the economy of experience, forcing them to assimilate
the same thing under different names; and in other cases they harmed the necessary”
accuracy by diverging the meaning of the same terms. Hence the extra
waste of social energy, which increases with the progress of specialization,
increasingly weakening its positive meaning.

The divergence of experience and methods of different industries leads to a narrowing of horizons
specialists and undermining organizational creativity. Placed, separately
ity, only an insignificant part of the techniques and points of view accumulated in society,
not being able to choose from them and combine them in the best way,
specialists are unable to cope with the continuously accumulating material.
organize it harmoniously and holistically. It turns out that the material is deposited in
in a more raw form, often overwhelming in quantity. Assimilation is all done
more difficultand forces further fragmentation of industries into even smaller ones, but
a narrowing of one’s horizons, etc. This has long been noticed by advanced scientists
and our thinkers, who fought against the “guild narrowness”, mainly
in the field of science.

But the fragmentation was not absolute; from the very beginning there was another tendency...
tion, which for a long time was not noticeable due to comparative weakness, but all
time has made its way and has especially intensified since the last century. Communication between
there were still industries, and the methods of some penetrated into others, often causing
There are whole revolutions in them. I. in technology and in science a number of the greatest discoveries, hardly
not most of them, boiled down precisely to the transfer of methods beyond the boundaries of those areas
layer where they were originally mined.

So the use of steam engines transferred from some industries:
water drainage into others, everywhere generating a huge increase in labor productivity; in
transorte, for example, it became widely used only tens of years after
how it transformed much of the industry. Then in the development of steam-
new machines, a big step forward was the use of a turbine device,
long known in water technology (the simplest turbine, etc. - a toy, called
May "Setner wheel). A further, even larger step was made by introducing
application of the “explosive” principle, has already mastered the technology of war and destruction for hundreds of years.
destruction. Engines built on this basis are distinguished by their gigantic strength.
low volume and weight; they conquered the ocean of air for humanity. .

In the technology of extracting ferrochemical metals, jewelry making and manufacturing.
Precise weighing methods were developed in medicine research. Lavoisier, having applied them.
No. 7—5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. I'm 23

consistently in chemistry, made a huge scientific revolution in it. Practically
theoretical principles of machine production, scientifically formulated by physicists, pre-
turned to thermodynamics and then to general energetics; the war is based on it
‘the newest association of physical and chemical sciences. Astronomy has been transformed
nprinciples of mechanics; Physiology was made an exact science by the methods of physics and chemistry,
Psychology deeply ‘changes its character thanks to the methods of physiology and
general biology, also introducing scientific accuracy into it.
The transfer of methods completely objectively and indisputably proves the possibility
the importance of their development towards unity; to the monism of organizational experience. But this conclusion
„ does not fit into the consciousness of a specialist, as well as in general in our commercial understanding
era, Any move that approaches such unity first meets with ferocity
strong resistance from the majority of specialists; the hysteria of science gives a lot of
fittings; and then, when the unifying idea wins, it is accepted
specialists, this does not in any way reduce their resistance to the following
step. It follows from the very mechanism of thought, characterized by specialization;
This mechanism is such that the specialist involuntarily strives to delimit his field
work, familiar and familiar, from the rest of the experience, alien and alien to him
there is a feeling of uncertainty in him; where borders are torn apart, where there is a rapprochement
knowledge of areas and methods of work, the specialist feels this as an intrusion of something
an outsider, even a hostile one, in his personal economy and assimilate this new
for him it is incomparably more difficult than walking along the old, well-trodden path. Because
for example, the broadest and deepest of the ideas unifying science of the 19th century is the law
conservation of energy—it took so long to fight through, the lawsuit was accepted.
Robert Mayer's article, which was the first to clearly express and describe this
law, was rejected by a special journal of physics. Darwinism had to
endure no less than a struggle. When physicist Hughes accidentally discovered electric waves
with the help of his microphone background, which was transmitted to him on the street, through the air and the wall,
vibrations of electrical discharges occurring in his laboratory series, then to friends
managed to convince him not to publish this fact, and his conclusion: the Okies said,
that he would “scientifically compromise” himself. And this discovery, draining the passions
phenomena of light and electricityWow, I had to do Hertz again for a quarter of a century. later
Even such practical, essentially simple ideas as the use of force
pair to water and land transiert, when oka was used by ueke as, moving
tel in industry, caused distrust and ridicule of authoritative people,
in the form of statements “this is as likely as traveling on / Congreve’s rocket.”
For a person brought up in the spirit of socialization, it was self-evident
that methods suitable for a factory may not be suitable for a ship or
crew. And meanwhile, the method on which the rocket is based, i.e. <explosive", vio-
consequently found its place in the organization of transport technology - of course, in
accordingly modified and adjusted form, for automobiles, motor
ships, airplanes and airships, It is customary to cite such facts without kovts.

M

The unity of organizational methods, breaking through the narrow boundaries of specialization
tion, so to speak, is imposed by the latest developments of technology and science. Characters
those ways in which modern thinking, philistine and scientific, eliminates
himself from this clingingly alien point of view. First of all, the very concept
“organizations” is attached only to living beings and their groups. Even
technical production processes are not recognized as organizational ones, Etsmu
inaccessible to consciousness, ‘as if invisible is the simplest fact that every product
is a system organized from material elements through attachment to them
elements of human labor energy, which, therefore, all technology is
the organization of things by human effort in human 'interests'.

As for the products of the elemental forces of nature, here is a living “organization”
ation" is opposed to a dead "mechanism" as something essentially different,
separated by an uncrossable chasm. Meanwhile, if you carefully examine,
how to apply c. science itself, the concept of “mechanism”, then the abyss immediately

o
24 ‚ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-8

disappears. Every time it is possible to explain some
him,function, it is already considered as “mechanical”. For example, breathing
the activity of the heart has long been considered the most mysterious phenomena of life;
when it was possible to understand them, they simply became “mechanisms” for physiology. Same
happened with the transmission of nervous excitations from the sense organs to the brain and from
brain to muscles, when the electrical nature of the nerve current became clear. Between
However, have all these functions ceased to be part of the organizational process?
life, its necessary and essential moments? Of course not. "Mechani-
The “real side of life” is simply everything that is explained in it. "Mechanism"—witness
organization, and nothing more. A machine is “nothing more than a mechanism” because its organization
tion was carried out by people and, therefore, is fundamentally known to them. And my own body—
"not simple mochacism" for modern man for the same reason, but
in which a watch for a savage or a baby is not a dead machine, but a living creature.
The “mechanical point of view” is a unified organizational point of view, in its
development, in its victories over the fragmentation of science.

No matter how much the thinking of modern society is opposed to this point of view,
cialist, but he too cannot help but be amazed by the increasing use of homogeneous methods
dov and schemes in the most diverse branches of scientific experience. There is a need to somehow
to understand this unity, mysterious to specialized consciousness, edu-
focused on fragmentation, looking for boundaries, frames, partitions - but the undoubted
and non-removable. It is appropriate to value it in such a way that as much as possible
soften it more, weaken its meaning, find that it is imaginary, or apparent,
either subjective or artificial, which is not at all rooted in nature itself
things in actual existence. Thought worked in this desirable direction
those philosophers who were imbued with the spirit of specialization, i.e. most-
their quality. They managed to create two theories that suited the task and their mood.

The first, Kantian, accepts that the entire unity of schemes and methods depends
I know only fromgeneral subject, quite “subjectively”. A person can
think only in certain forms that are initially characteristic of the
the nature of his cognitive ability. He imposes these forms on the facts,
and then relates it to reality itself, to the nature of the world being studied, which is
delusion: he, in the words of Kant, “prescribes laws to nature,” but
only in the sense that these are the laws of his own knowledge, from which he
cannot evade, from the framework of which he cannot escape; he puts experience into them,
because he himself is limited by them, has no others, Everything seems to him to be happening
walking in time, in space, in causality, etc.; but that's just
so “it seems”, only a “phenomenon” (appearance, appearance); these “forms” consist
in the nom, the subject, and not in things “in themselves,” not in the object. This is the main
according to the old “gnobeology”, i.e. theories of knowledge.

Here, for example, is how this point of view is applied to the atomic theory in physics.
chemical sciences and related concepts in other areas:

“The atomistic hypothesis is psychologically necessary. Continuous
We cannot comprehend reality without dividing it into parts; hence the concept of time
me, about space, about a straight line as an element of a curve, about an atom, about a cell,
as a biological atom, about a person, as a social atom, etc. d. Atomisticheskaya
Hypothesis does not express the structure of bodies, but rather the structure of the cognitive system
own" *).

Concerning Crookes's hypothesis about the primordial substance or "protyle", which
“aggregating”, i.e. condensing, by grouping into closer combinations,
should have. form chemical elements (but according to modern views, these
“protyl” turned out to be atoms of electricity, negative and positive),
the same author says:

“I didn’t mind it, even if it existed, I had a desire for aggregation,
and Crookes had such a desire to aggregate protyl in order to somehow prevent
to draw a picture... the origin of matter from primary matter" **).

.

* M. Godyastein, “Fundamentalsphilosophy of chemistry", pp. 57-58, ;
**) Ibid., p. 423.
No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 25

'The tensions in such reasoning are very easy to detect. Wrong
already in the traditions of time and space to discern atomism.” Atom’nase-_
It is precisely that which cannot be divided into parts that is removed, i.e. ‘or absolutely impossible
is possible or impossible without changing the very nature of what is being shared. And time and
space, in modern scientific thinking, is precisely characterized by
that they can be continued indefinitely, ‘i.e. that they are n@ “atomistic”. But not this
the main thing.

Let a living cell be a biological atom; therefore‘ ‹psychologically necessary
“It was necessary” to recognize its separateness. But wasn’t it necessary for this to also see
Put her under a microscope? And was she seen because of this “hesychological necessity”?
bridge"? However, until the cell was opened and traced (its changes,
transformation, until then there was no thought about the cellular structure of living bodies.
Of course, they seemed to consist of certain elements; but unite
There was not and could not be a definitive scheme of cellular organization.

Let's choose the illustration ourselves. In the study of electrical and magnetic

In terms of forces, the “attraction-repulsion” scheme is widely used. It is there

in the mass of ideas from other areas of science and life, from molecular theories
to mutual relationships between animals of different sexes that are “attracted”,
and one gender, which are “repelled”, or human characters, or mental
ical images in the consciousness of it. under. Obviously, she also expresses “not the structure of things,
and the structure of our cognitive ability” is also “subjective”, i.e. depends
from the cognizing subject. But if it does not depend on the “structure of things”, then it
should be applicable everywhere: where there is a “phenomenon” of attraction, there in response
Under current conditions there must also be a “phonomon” of repulsion. Unfortunately, this
no, just for planetary attraction, the same one that has an unpleasant effect
Zom chains Us to the earth. “Otroenis with the amount of cognitive skillsproperties",
which “strives” to complement attraction with repulsion, powerlessly ‘give us
the most important thing is the fact that is required. It is clear that the “structure of the
Let us know” that “prescribing laws to nature” is possible only by agreement with it.

It is true that there are certain forms of thinking in which people
try to put their experience into perspective; but this is not at all some eternal “structure of the
cognitive ability”, but simply ways of organizing experience; they are developing
and change with the growth of experience itself and the change in its content. from a savage animist

“the structure of the cognitive ability” requires that everyone moving pre-
met—a person, an animal, the sun, a stream, a clock—and even every object in general—had
her “soul”; This form of thinking is dying out in our country. For us there is time and space”
endless; but this was not the case even in ancient times. "Atomism" arose
in ancient thinking, when individualism developed in society, separate
understanding of man from man; people are accustomed to thinking of themselves and others as separate
in units; They transferred this habit to the provision of information about nature: “scarlet”
vol means in Greek the same thing as “individual” in Latin, namely “non-
Limo6.”

I saw a child of one epistemological philosopher, his son, who signified
a large table and a stool with the words “otol-dad” and “table-baby”. The epistemologist should
It would be useful to understand from this example what “forms” or “categories” of thinking are.
The narrow experience of the family gave the child a familiar connection between similar objects and different
size; this connection entered into the “structure of the cognitive ability”, and
I tried to organize further experience with her help. So is a savage, living in a region
atsine, organized by authoritative leadership and passive submission, thinks,

i.e. organizes in his consciousness the whole world in the same way - the powerful “bot”
and people and things subordinate to him; and likewise a person and other objects, he mentally
organizes from a powerful, guiding “soul” and a passive “body”. Similar to

—— thus the individualistic fragmentation of lifeknowledge gave philosophers a diagram

|

atomic fragmentation of the elements of the world, etc. d.
The essence of the matter is simple. All these’ unifying schemas are means
organization of experience, with tools or “forms”. But the instrument of organization depends
of course, and from the one who organizes it, who, therefore, develops this weapon
and uses it, and from what it is organized - from the material it is used. That's right
`

35 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-8

and the tool must correspond in its design, on the one hand,
hand and the power of the roboticist, on the other hand - the properties of the object that this tool is used -
being processed;: for a savage a thin tool is useless, suitable for a trained
European worker, and for turning iron a tool suitable
for wood. There is no fundamental difference between the tools of mathematics
real and ideal, just as there is no difference in relation to historical treason
the generosity of both. .
` Another point of view on unifying schemes can be called “philological
skoy" or "symbolistic". She is very related to the first and brings together the events
transferring these schemes to language, to words, to the development of similar designations or symbols
fishing for different areas of experience. Here is an example of such an interpretation:

“The same equation—Lanlasovskall—occurs in Nyyutonovsky’s theory
gravity, in the theory of fluid motion, in the study of electric potential,
the doctrine of magnetism, the propagation of heat and many others. Which of these
should? These theories seem to be exactly copied from each other, they are mutual

are illuminated and explained, dreams borrow their language from each other. Ask U

electricity specialists, what benefits did the invention of the term provide to them?
“flow of force” inspired by the tidrodynamics and thesria of heat...” etc. d. *),

The main thing here is, perhaps, in the lack of agreement, in the fact that there is no
The question arises: why can one branch of experience borrow from another its language?
and why “terms” acquire such power. The idea is instilled that this force is
existing in the symbols themselves, that the “common language” issufficient explanation.
In fact, this is not the case at all. The use of general terms sometimes only harms understanding:
and clarity, as we saw in the example of the concept of “competition” in general teaching
about life and political economy. It also brought little benefit to science and created
a lot of confusion is used, for social structure and life, by the school of ‹organizational
nitsists" of the same language that was used for a separate organism: will receive
there was a search in society for various organs and tissues, similar to tissues and ortho-
us a living body, and why artificial ones were created. approaching, dimming
stretches, instead of truly general organizational charts.

In reality, a common language results from the unity of ortanizational ones.
methods or forms and expresses it. It is produced ‘everywhere only. later,
than. this unity is revealed. In many cases, where it is already thrown into
eyes, there are still no general terms—they remain different due to specialization
zirovanny language.

Thus, the ordinary structure of a plant seed and egg can serve as a bright,
An example of the coincidence of independently established organizational forms. In both
cases, there is an embryo that is surrounded by nutrient layers, then more
rough “skeletal” type shell. Often even similar in chemical co-
I will form the nutrient layers, one with a predominance of nitrogenous substances, namely proteins:
and bodies close to them, other © predominance of nitrogen-free - fatty and sugar-

‘greasy in the egg, oily and starchy in the seed; What does the arrangement of layers have to do with:

there are differences. The unity of the building scheme is noticed ‘here. quite a long time ago; but about
Common terms are created only gradually, mainly due to development.
organic and physical chemistry.

Another illustration. In a female flower, the central place is occupied by the channel,
which is the path for fertilization. In front it is surrounded first by a warehouse
kami of a more delicate tissue structure, then a coarser one. (“corolla petals” and
"cup") In the depths of it lies an organ, more or less pear-shaped
the form in which it occurspromotes the development of the embryo (“pistil”). Exactly the same
description of architecture, with the exception of botanical terms, may be used
applied to female organs, e.g. monkeys or humans. But it is clear that “one
language" and here only leads to posing the question of the unity of the structure scheme, and
does not explain it at all and does not exhaust it, “

Despite countless parallels and coincidences in various fields,
rah of experience, the old world, anarchically fractional in its social structure, could not

no

_ *) April Poincaré, “The Value of Science”, French. ed., p. 146,

with
No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. _ 27

come to the idea of universal unity of organizational methods—to the task of universal
organizational science,\

| ‚UG:\

Humanity needed a new point of view, on a universal scale -.
in other words, a new way of thinking. But they appear in history only when
when either a new organization of the whole society develops, or a new one emerges:
social class. In the twentieth century, precisely such a class emerged—industrial
proletariat |

It was in these life relationships, in the atmosphere of his work and struggle.
‘conditions that gave rise to a way of thinking that did not exist, that point of view,
which was missing. It took time for it to develop, for it to exist.
realized and expressed, But now it is clear enough, and its foundations are obvious, 4

An obstacle to the development of monistic scientific-organizational mouse-
There was specialization and anarchic fragmentation of the labor system. Proletarian"
machine production in the stable and constant conditions of its social
life had a starting point for overcoming the spirit of specialization, the spirit.
anarchy.

As machines improved, the role of the worker with them changed its character.
character The deepest division within the framework of cooperation was that:
960 brought the ortanizer down from the performer, mental effort versus physical effort.
In scientific technology, worker labor combines both types. The organizer has a job.
management and control over the performer; The work of the performer is physicalmaybe
action on objects of labor. In machine production, the activity of the worker is. `
control and control over the “iron slave”—machine/by physical force 03-
actions on her. The elements of labor here are those that were previously required.
only for the organizational function, technical awareness, consideration...
tion, initiative in case of disruption of the normal course of business, and those that characterize--
called the executive function - dexterity, speed, skill of movements. This
the combination of types is very weakly expressed at the very beginning of the development of machine technology.
nicknames, when the worker is a living appendage of a machine, mechanical dexterity
with her hands, praising her rough, simple movements. Combination of tiles:
appears sharper and more defined as the machine improves and becomes more complex.
“is moving closer and closer to the type of “automatic”, self-acting mechanism
mechanism, in which the essence of work is live control, proactive intervention
activity, constantly active attention. The combination will be completed completely then,
when an even higher form of machines developed—self-regulating mechanisms—
lows. This, of course, is a matter for the future; but even now the unifying trend is
steps sharply enough to paralyze the worker's thinking. influence:
the former gap between “mental” and “physical” labor.

Another division between workers and them is also being overcome, step by step.
technical siecialization. “Psychological content of various labor
processes are becoming more and more homogeneous; specialization is transferred to ma-.
tire, on the worker and inetrumegtu and as for the differences in experience and in. experiences
the workers themselves, dealing with different machines, then these differences are increasingly
decrease, and with the highest technology it becomes almost insignificant but comparable
understanding the sum of similar experiences, identical experiences that are included
in the content of labor - observation, control, control of the machine. Siecialisa-
At the same time, the tion, in fact, is not destroyed - the branches of production are actually
do not mix between. themselves, eachI have my own technique, namely jareosol-
the concept, losing its harmful sides, ceases to be a network of partitions between
people, ceases to narrow their horizons and limit their communication, their mutual
new understanding"*),

|

*) “Issues of socialism”, A. Bogdanov, pp. 12-13, art. "Collectivist system"
The first one is taken from the not yet published Volume 2 of “Politics, Economics” by Bogdanov and Ste-
Panova, issue 4,
28 _ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. | No. 7-8

As for the social anarchy that arose from the division of labor, the con-
competition, the struggle of man against man, then, as the worker develops,
class loses its dividing influence on him, because in his environment
it is actually eliminated. Companionship at work, common interests in
relation to capital give rise to the siloing of the proletariat into various class
organizations that step by step, with hesitation, ‘but inevitably lead him to
unification into a global team.

The working class carries out the task of organizing things in its labor,
nization of their collective human forces in their social struggle. Experience
he has to bind this and other areas into his own special ideology—organization
nization of ideas. Thus, life itself makes him an organizer of universal
Tim, and the military organizational point of view is natural and even necessary
a trend for him.

This is also reflected in how easily specialist workers are freed from the workshop.
great prejudices of the profession, and how greedily the advanced proletarians strive

to encyclopedic knowledge, and not narrowly specialized, and in how readily he assimilates

They develop the most magical ideas and theories in all areas. But that doesn't mean
‘so that a new point of view, appearing in a mass of particular manifestations, could, in everything
its giant grip, easily and quickly. to realize, to take shape to the end. The Hindu himself
“The trial proletariat is only gradually developing into a new social class,
‘re-educated by the power of life relationships into which relatively
pedalo. Ideology is generally the most 'conserative side of social “nature;
developing a new way of life, a new worldview, a new culture is the most difficult
new thing in the life of the class,

The great social crisis of recent years must appear, the most powerful
impetus for the awareness and formulation of an all-organizational point of view. 066 parts
irisis - the world war and the world revolution that emerged from it - in different ways
paths leading the working class in this direction.

The World War itself was the greatest organizational school,
caused an unprecedented strain on the organizational abilities of any individual
identity, of any collective directly or indirectly participating in it, gave them
unprecedented wealth of organizational experience. This experience is different and exceptional
a strictly strict statement of the problem that has to be solved no matter what

it became either perish, and the military nature of the task. In a military situation it is necessary

simultaneously and jointly, in one connection, to organize both human forces and all
available material resources, and even the ideology of the military collective - that
called him “spirit.” Moreover, all these three sides act almost like
equal; ‹their elements are organizationally replaced at every step
by others. The lack, for example, in people is compensated by strengthening technical means
extermination, then the ideological unity of people—the fashioning of the military spirit
collective through inspiring and explanatory speeches, orders: lack
“technical means are balanced by the replenishment of human material, and
t. under. The unity of the organizational point of view is imposed with the greatest force
and creates an urgent need for unity of organizational methods.

h The war was the first phase of the great organizational crisis; she called
the second phase—revolution. The revolution did not only force the working class to rush
and intensely organize his forces, she put him in an unprecedented position:
at least in some countries it forced him to take control of the organiza-
nization of social life as a whole. This position is indifferent, timevariable
it ‘or final, changed for the working class’ scale. organizational
tasks from limited to universal. The sharper the contradiction between the
actor of the task and lack of formalization of experience, skills and
‘methods of the working class, the more clearly the need to formalize everything
This makes the need for a universal organizational science all the more urgent.

This is how all the vital prerequisites for this science were created. Long and difficult
Humanity walked towards her jokingly. It is a universal science in the highest and most
‘in the full meaning of this word. Her idea was excluded for old classes by fractionalization
‘their bigness, fragmentation and one-sidedness of their experience. When the forces of history
G:

No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 209

put forward a new class in a new, 9unifying position, then for this idea
the time has come for her to be brought to life, where she will appear as a forerunner and a powerful tool
real organization of humanity into a single collective.

A. Bogdanov. ‘

0 professionalism, workers in art; `

As soon as in Soviet Russia the participation of workers in cultural construction
took on a massive character as soon as this participation began to spread in
field of art, then the question immediately arose about turning those with vocations into
transformation of workers into professionals: writers, artists, performers, musicians and
etc. D.I. is natural for the violin. If we want to seriously, and most importantly, quite consciously
It is important to contribute to the creation of a proletarian culture, to facilitate the process of
liberation of the proletariat from bourgeois culture and in particular from bourgeois
art, then the identification of proletarian ideology, proletarian art
can only happen with serious mastery of the technique of art, and this is a
a ton of hard work and time. The need to master the techniques and methods
achieved by humanity after a long and varied historical path,
completed by bourgeois society, hardly anyone will deny” Can only
The question arises of how to take and assimilate this technique. Not only in art, but
and in pgrowing craft requires the ability to wield a tool, and only this ‘skill.
will make it possible to identify with the greatest freedom and consistency the most multifaceted
new and whimsical plans of a nerdy soul. We repeat - negative attitude -
The path to mastering technology cannot be assumed, and it is not thought of by anyone. When-
The workers’ call for professionalism in the field of art is met with embarrassment and fear.”
great fear on the other side. Opponents of professionalism fear that the worker
breaking away from the flock and processes of physical labor, the working class will break away,
and these interests, and therefore, will lose its class feature to the most
easy perception and consciousness of socialist ideology, a feature of i-
which no representative of other classes and strata possesses to the same extent,
except proletarian. To be more convincing, opponents of professionalism
Zizma made an excursion into the history of the labor movement and brought up shameful nyatna
it in the form of live illustrations. As such they present us with betrayed
workers of the working class, professionals of the political and economic movement;

. Noske, Ebertov, Sheidomanov, Legivykh and others. “Here are working professionals for you,”
our opponents say triumphantly, they have taken their eyes off their machines and forgotten
the ABCs of socialism and turned into the worst enemies of the workers’ movement.”

These living illustrations, just by reminding you, get on your nerves and,
evoke in us a feeling of intense hatred with their coven-like betrayal of our interests.
owls of the revolution. It would seem that this alone could convince supporters. professional
lism in the fallacy of their position. “But this only seems superficial and not
Marxistek. thinking. These illustrations are evidence. from another opera, and they
have no relation to us at present. We all Marxists know that the truth
konyretna, 608 we do not think of a specific place and time ©e. Noske, Ebert,
The Scheidemanns and similar scoundrels became professionals in capitalism.
ical society, but not in Russia. Social Feder. Sov. Resmuslice. And this, toak ho-
Our opponents also understand well that the distance is enormous and very
rather big. ,

What's the matter? How did our opponents, also Marxists, not screw up this
difference? If it were only this, then the opponents of professionalism,
Probably, this difference, if not fully realized, would have been lost. It is difficult to pre-
bet so they don't notice this one. obviousness. Our mistake. antininov\
lies in a deeper misunderstanding of conditions that have no direct
obviousness, but demand that in resolving all issues the
Zo PROLETARIAN CULTURE: No. 78

out of sight of the foundations of Marxism. The main argument of opponents is that,
becoming a professional in art, the worker breaks away from labor processes
factory or factory life. This is where their whole mistake lies. They fetishize
“physical labor. They think that the working class idol is determined by physical
atomic labor.’ In fact, it is determined by the method of production as a whole
and the position in production occupied by the working class.

Does a peasant, or a master craftsman, work less physically?
than a factory worker, and labor itself can be more complex and varied than
the labor process of a factory worker mechanically performing. repetitive
the same job day after day. And, however, this does not serve as a guarantee for the cre-
peasant and artisan - in his liberation from petty-bourgeois ideology
and does not contribute to the perception of the proletarian. The gap is not only that the worker
“breaks away from the labor process, at the factory, and in what class position
he borrows. When Scheide was taking time off for political and economic work
mana; Leggings, etc. , then their position changed greatly in terms of economic
essence. They had the opportunity to live a different, comfortable life. Whichever
Legin, being the general secretary of the German trade unions,
‘united about. three million members, 'was a kind of king. And this
the situation gave many temptations so thatyou change more than once both consciously and
and consciously of the cause of the workers. It’s the same with politicians, always
deputies elected to the bridge to occupy parliamentary seats. If only
we had a question in a capitalist society about the separation of workers from the machine
to a vocational school for the study of the arts, then we, without opposing this,
at that time they wouldn’t have even put their hand to it. Our main front is political
economic, they could not divert forces from it to a secondary front,
which, in terms of its results, perhaps would not have fully justified the cost even without
that poor’ strength.

The situation is now completely different in Soviet Russia. We have won the political
and economic power, `we need to strengthen it. This requires cultures
great forces, and the task of cultural construction faces us in full force.

The Soviet state has an ideological propaganda apparatus,
but he does not have enough strength of his own to be able to
Use the file. Our opponents continue to use the cash machine
against us, if not directly, then indirectly. Thus, they support the idea
The logic of the bourgeois system, which crystallized in objects, art,
dead and living bearers of it, all kinds of artists, painters, writers,
musicians, scientists...

Art is a powerful means of strengthening and developing ideology; it contributes
be used by us, and for this purpose it is necessary to create a cadre of workers
in this area, promoting the most talented.

Our opponents are afraid that with complete separation the workers will fall under power
ou ideology and will forget their position as workers. We think this is not the case.

Firstly, their position, and this is the most important thing, will not change in any way
with the workers. They will live and study on a subsidy, which, in any case, is not
will exceed workers' wages, and the situation will not be at all similar
on the situation in the capitalist state of the Scheidemoms and Noskes. In addition;

in Soviet Russiaand, as we have already said, the ideological apparatus of action
in the hands of the workers’ and peasants’ government, bourgeois influence’ is undermined,
so the temptations of capitalism. there is no state, and there is no danger
ties in isolation: To be afraid of the bourgeoisification of workers who will be engaged in studying
technique of art means to give too much force to the influence of the bourgeois
éjoise idbolotia and its special seductiveness. We think the opposite. ate prole-
Tara ideology smashed all the fortresses of the bourgeois and came out onto the free road,
that final formation in all areas is taking place right now,
and there is no reason to fear that the huntsman's yen has a greater attraction+
stronger force than proletarian ideology, and workers, studio students—precisely
such blasphemous material that easily lends itself to corrupting influence
bourgeois ideology.

C/
and

No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. zt

We will not be able to create prolegarian art if we do not create conditions: for
workers, under whom they could develop their advanced capabilities. If
out of fear of the worker being separated from the machine, we will contribute to the creation of a frame
dropouts and amateurs who, even with great talent, are in the process
manifestations of creative potential will encounter obstacles and brakes in
If they do not have the proper technical skills, then this means we will be
‘Mattoya is not only a useless thing, but also harmful:

We are convinced that the point of view of opponents of professionalism in art
will fail and will not meet with the support of the broad happy masses. Against her talk
rit and a serious understanding of Marxism and. the need to quickly master ampara-
volume of cultural construction. Besides, it would be too absurd to leave
the bourgeois intelligentsia has all the rights and privileges, and the workers are deprived of them. This
that means the workers' government would cut off the branch that, after so many
effort it perched itself. No, the working class is not so naive as to
transfer the government of their culture into the hands of the bourgeois intelligentsiaadi unpro-
thoughtfulness of at least sincere opponents of professionalism.

Fedor Kalinin.

0 professionalism.

those
} >

The powerful development of construction and proletarian culture brings before us
a number of fundamental questions. Creativity of the proletarian theater, new methods
literary and artistic creativity, new paths in the visual arts
quality, its rapprochement with production processes, professionalism - all these
questions require a fundamental justification for each practical step.

In this article we will tackle the issue of professionalism.

Students from various studios talk about the impossibility of combining work
factory, plant with work in the studio. The creative tension necessary for a studio student'
For the sake of concentrating on the role, writing the work, doing it, it’s scary
reduced by fatigue during a day of work in a factory. The work that should
done by the studio people, - it’s otromna. They need to study that area of art in which
which they worked on, work on mastering and improving technology, studying
samples of the past. For all this, with an 8-hour working day, there is absolutely no
time remains. Therefore, the work of the studio workers is accidental, incomplete.

‹ notes, amateurism. To conquer all the values of bourgeois art,
its iritical assimilation requires a lot of effort; time and simple physical
voltage. And, the studio members say, if we want to create solid foundations for treatment,
Tartar culture, then give you full opportunity to work in that field of art
otva to which we are drawn, giving him completely all our strength and time. Without
strictly, comparatively, mastering the technique of art in the fight against a very strong influence
proletarian culture cannot be a manifestation of the bourgeois culture of art
mverdoy. `

It is necessary to perfectly master the technique of art and only then
weapons of technical perfection to enter the fight. Otherwise, all attempts will be
loot is just a waste of effort.

At the Moscow 2nd Proletkult Conference the question of professionalism
caused painlively and lively debate. Two points of view have been outlined: one is the
knowledge of professionalism, other negation.

Representatives of both points of view agree on the need to conquer
introduction by the proletariat of the forms of bourgeois culture of art, its high technology
nicknames Mastery of technique must proceed through critical analysis—this is the whole point.
The marriage also did not cause controversy. The spotlight has been shifted to another
plane.
32 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-8

Defenders of the first point of view defended the need to organize prices
central studios for all branches of art. According to them, from among the studioites,
nak in the center and in the districts must be selected through strict testing
the most talented comrades. They are freed from work in the factory and
water, but receive a scholarship from the state and work exclusively in the field
art. ‘

In this work, studio students, under the guidance of a specialist artist,
niks scientifically. being aware of the material and technique of art, they will critically master
to use the fruits of the old culture to create a new proletarian culture.

The general task of the central jelly, according to its supporters, is “06v0b0-
the birth of the proletariat. from the petty-bourgeois swathes of “specialists” and immediate
creating a cadre of our own specialists, proletarian artists emerging from the depths"
your class.", }

Therefore, technical education, arming the proletarian artist with all
knowledge of craftsmanship is the first and main step towards construction
proletarian art. Without this, there is a risk of becoming amateurish and superficial.
a gentle gliding along the heights of creativity without the necessary deepening.

The defenders of the central studio strengthen their positions with another
an extremely important consideration. The armament of the proletarian-artist has been won by everyone=
knowledge of technology, mastery of art is impossible on a mass scale. Possible
but only the creation of leaders and leaders among the proletarians in the field of art.
This will be liberation from the “specialists” of bourgeois art—the cadre of ‘leaders’
proleTariev-artists will be the headquarters of proletarian spiritual culture.

And as the cornerstone of this entire construction, what moves
The movement in favor of professionalism grew out of the practical work of Proletkult.
It is not an armchair wash, it is generated by life itself, and is counterproductive.
to act would mean to ignore the demands of the time, to reject
vital and historical, perhaps inevitable phenomena. If
If you don’t take this movement into your hands, it will go past Proletkult. Talents, g-
They will be able to overcome the obstacles in their path, but it will be done
by themselves, without the help of the proletarian center of culture and will be against it,
Tan raises and substantiates the question of professionalism by its supporters.

; (

TE

We, standing on the basis of the denial of professionalism, consider it necessary to
deeper coverage of this issue. Its defenders argue simply
and it is clear: a trend has arisen among the Studite people, it is caused by ‘life itself, and to him
you need to meet halfway. This is too easy a solution. We, just like our pro-
tivniks believe) that the proletarian artist needs to master the technique
art. The proletarian artist must receive high general and technical
education. But... we approach the issue from the other side. You are important to us"
First of all, what is the construction of proletarian culture? Is there
Is this a cultural process or a process of struggle? If the first; —there’s nothing to argue about:
the sooner and more widely we are able to promote a certain amount of money to the masses of the prolegariat
knowledge, artistic skills, the sooner we create our artists, the
better. `Kulturtregherstvo is always characterized by a political apoliticality, Ps-
The concept of class creativity, class struggle is rejected by the Kulturtragers.
Art is universal, in their opinion, and therefore all the conquests of the old world
All of us are equally valuable and expensive, and the sooner we put the masses in conditions of mastery.
them, the more broadly and completely we solve the task set before us. But we are alive
who live and live by the principles and methods of classhowl of struggle, we stand at a different point
vision. For us, the creativity of proletarian culture is a process of struggle. And in
since this is so, then all questions of proletarian culture are raised and resolved
us on a completely different plane than what representatives of pure culture do
hturtregerstva. to

What tasks do we set ourselves in building proletarian culture?

At the present moment of intensification of the class struggle, it is especially funny
No. 78 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 33

talk about a kind of Burtfrieden between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie on the basis
recognition of art as a universal human value, as something outside. or, and class-
worthwhile.

The construction of proletarian culture is a process of struggle. © remnants
bourgeois culture, overcoming psychologically. harmful influence of decadent
great art of the bourgeoisie on the proletarian masses. The Great Revolution, unfolded
spreading its fiery wings over the whole world, has embraced the political and economic
nomic side of life in Europe. The old one is collapsing. capitalist way of life.
The revolution, overthrowing the old, opens up immense prospects for construction
socialist forms of economy. At the same time overthrown. to rule the bourgeoisie,
replaced by the dictatorship of the proletariat, a class called upon to lay the stones
socialism, the architect class, the builder of the new world.

The power of the Soviets, the socialization of production—these are the foundation stones of the building.
niya, which is being built by the Great World Revolution. ,

"But if in the field of economic and political revolution the
life beyond recognition if the autocratic past and the power of the bourgeoisie
seems to be a long time ago, in the field of culture it is far from being the case. The power of the old
peace in culture is still very, very strong. And it cannot be overthrown with a bayonet, it cannot be
destroy as a bureaucratic, economic or political apiarat.
Bourgeois culture permeates our entire life, our entire everyday life, our entire endless
chain of everyday relationships. Architecture, theater, literature, music,
fine arts, all these are the values of the bourgeois world. They are everywhere
have their saydeep psychological influence—on. on the street, in the theater, in
libraries, museums, exhibitions. Their influence is often elusive.
Art is the result of spiritual, infinitely diverse, multifaceted activity.
human beings. It seems to be common to everyone, close to every person.
Every person is an artist. This community of art forms the basis of speculative
the use of terms of universal humanity, non-class nature of artificial
stva. Art lives on the heights, where the waves of class struggle do not reach.
so say the artists of the old world, so our comrades repeat after them,
who have not grasped with due depth the foundations of our worldview—that
and being determines consciousness, and hence feeling. Fight © these obsolete
their views, the fight against psychological influence. bourgeois culture,
uprooting it. remnants, the implementation of vague speculative
ideology with which the masses are saturated, into a distinct, clear class ideology
gy—this is our main task in building proletarian culture.

The cultural revolution is just beginning, the need for destruction
bourgeois ideology is only just being realized by our comrades. Therefore we
0s0benio requires clarity of thought, clarity of vision, sharpness of criticism and firmness.
old foundations of class consciousness. Based on these basic principles, we
This is how we understand the need to create a proletarian artist, If_at this time
moment, let’s say very quickly, we will be able to create under the leadership of “sp.
tsialists" proletarian artists who have perfect technology, form
my art, then does this resolve the main issue of constructing a proleg-
skoy culture—the creation of a headquarters of proletarians-leaders of the creativity of our class
culture? Categorically and definitely no!

And here's why.

What is a technique, an art form, what is its relation to it. content?
This is an old and ever new question. For us there is no self-sufficient form. Thoughts
9 were born as the last stage of the decomposition of bourgeois art. "Bess-
meaningful" creativity,worship of form, a trend born already in the process
revolution, only indicates how strong the inertia of the disintegration of the old
outdated concepts,

For us, form is a derivative of content. The idea of the work, the “what”
it is expressed and always requires certain forms. Try to insert a drill-
The new poems of Verhaeren’s “Uprising” are transformed into the form of Nadson’s mournful verse. It's not-
it is possible precisely because the word in poetry is not an accidental and independent fact.
Thought is word minus sound. Tin clothes thought in a distinctly perceived

3
34 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 78

our feelings form. Thought requires from the word the rhythm and strength it needs.
How can a lion not be swaddled in a baby swaddle and placed in a cradle with a pacifier?
in the mouth, so one cannot squeeze a thought into forms that do not correspond to it. And all sorts of things
a work is only artistically valuable when it combines
both form and content.

All modern art is indisputable proof of this position.
nia. One striking example. The proletariat has set itself a task in the images of art
consolidate centuries of struggle for socialism. The names of the revolutionaries who preserved
history told us, should have been enshrined in monumental monuments.
The Council of People's Commissars called on the best artistic forces to do this.
And what happened? Everywhere and everywhere Marx, this fiery nature, revolutionary
to the last cell of his organism, a fiery tribune, a fighter of thought,
disappeared under the hands of artists into a good-natured or, at best, stern
old man. Under the dead blocks of stone, plaster, bronze, no shadow is visible -
the work of Marx, his great mind, etc. fiery nature. Why is this so? Because
that for the artists who created monuments to him, Marx was a great scientist -
but there were so many of them in centuries gone by. And neither of the artists. not according to
felt Marx the revolutionary. Therefore, a ‘form corresponding to
artists' thoughts. The best monuments-busts of Marx are, at best, -
revealing the profundity of a scientist, and nothing more.Marx*revolutionary is not a being
for artists ‘because they are alien to the world of struggle, the world of constant re-
revolutionary burning, the world of creativity, victories and defeats. But these artists
Nicks, if not all, then many of them, possess the technique of art to perfection. We
would offer to those who stand for professionalism, for accelerating the conquest
proletariat of art technology, look at the monuments erected during
time of revolution, and think about them. The results will be at a high level
teacherly. Therefore, the development of the proletarian artist is only as a technique,
giving perfect form of art, does not resolve the issue.

We base our creativity on thought. The basis of proletarian art
national culture for us is a proletarian-artist with a pure class
worldview. And we put the creation of such a proletarian artist at the forefront.
corner of creativity of our proletarian culture.

And here it would be appropriate to ask a question to supporters of professionalism. Are you sure
they are that the “specialists” to whom the proletarian will be given processing must
who wants to become an artist, but will be distorted by his “forms”, perhaps
the still unsettled psychology of a comrade? We have no such confidence.

The proletarian artist, before he began to create, needs a thorough
support. The creative process is a long process. Before revealing
an idea in light, sound, stone, colors, the artist creates, processes it in his own
consciousness. And already this process of work of thought, spiritual internal burning for
the proletarian artist is a process of struggle against bourgeois thought. In this case
pure class consciousness is something that purifies the thought and creativity of
lotaria from everything alien and hostile to him. And only when the inner
the creative process ends with the need to identify an idea, only then
acts as a secondary stage, a form of art, its technique. Of course, once
It seems that the proletarian, a sensitive and deeply thinking artist at heart,
not having the necessary technicaltheir knowledge, will not be able to reveal his
inner world. He must be able to do this, must master the technique of art

stva. But for us it is very important how and under what conditions the proletarian artist will
master the technique of art.

Social existence determines consciousness. The position of the proletarian in general
ity, its role in the capitalist process of production sharpens its consciousness according to
lines of opposition to the world of capitalist relationships. Production
These relations make him an enemy of capital, creating from dispersed workers
forces a single force: the proletariat class, imbued with the unity of thought, purpose and paths
her achievements.

The ideology of the proletariat will be born in production. There his psycho-
logy. And the higher the development of the productive forces, the more densely they are organized*
No. 728 'PROLETARIAN' CULTURE. |‘ 35

ity, the deeper production is captured by forms of highly developed kacit-
lism, the more complete are the prerequisites for the collectivism of the proletarian forces.

In the catalistic process of production with its endless division
labor consciousness of every proletarian ‘nationality’ is completely definite: from 0-
holding. The proletarian clearly realizes that his individual power is infinitely
small value. And only in close cooperation with her comrades is she able to
capable of conquering distance, creating steam locomotives, cars, subduing the elements
‘the seas by creating ocean-going steamships, conquering the air by creating steel ‘its,
‘boldly violating the blue calm of the heavenly depths. The first blow of the hammer will
“The second one follows, the third follows it. Without a second blow, a third one is unthinkable, without
third-fourth. A logical link that links together the efforts of many hundreds
and thousands of workers, cannot be torn. The production process requires unity
Action, collectivism of creativity, in which one link follows. after another.

The process of capitalist production is characterized by the depersonalization of labor,
reduction of work to the automatic repetition of any one operation. This
‘and pervertsproletarian into a small cog of a huge one. cars, in a small, non-
a noticeable quantity devoid of individuality.

But at the same time “modern.” imnerialistic capitalism is revealed
shows all the signs of impersonality, socialization, and in accordance with this it is created
and the collectivist psychology of the industrial proletariat" *). And one more thing
what is more important is that “every worker in this system (of capitalist production)
more than in all other periods, there is an inextricable and necessary link in this
nom process, in its entire system" **).

And if the proletarian is an “inseparable and necessary link” in the process
production, then in the formation of proletarian class psychology the most pro-
The production center is the main link. The peihology of the proletarian is brought up
is formed and sharpened in the process of production, in a continuous and inextricably linked
the value of his labor with the labor of his comrades,

There the proletarian receives his first and deepest class education. This—
the process of preparation by capitalism of its
convinced gravediggers. Denying the individuality of the proletarian, mechanizing
Well, capitalism thereby creates the strongest foundation for its powerful
new enemy, proletarian collectivism. Class education is not limited
It is determined, of course, only by the production process. It is the main moment
vol. Economic oppression also binds the proletarians into a single force to achieve
Kenya with a common goal. But this is where the depth of psychology is least processed.
‘Rules here. immediate real, life-like, sometimes narrowly philistine
some interest. The basics of psychological class education are given by the ‘process
<0m production, as such. Only in it do proletarians become deeply aware of creativity.
ical strength of the proletarian collective.) There is born a sense of connectedness, bonds
partnership. From the mechanical connection of the proletarians, as units of labor,
a feeling of psychological unity develops. This is not a unity of mass, not a herd
“the darkness of the crowd, manifested in menacing, perhapsyes, but still fleeting
in blazes, and collectivism, a continuously operating organic consciousness
“a divinity that penetrates the soul of the proletarian to its most intimate depths.

Therefore, the main evil of professionalism is that it separates the proletarian
‘the artist from the ‘production process,

Separated from the process of production, the proletarian artist finds himself in an allegedly
technical" processing of "special" worldviews and feelings that are far from class
cialietov". Their work is a constant influence on him of bourgeois psychology.
At the same time, the influence on the psychology of the proletarian artist as the process itself
production, and the comrades associated with it in this process are lost. And this
at the moment when he especially needs a sharpening of his class psychology,
because the creativity of culture is not only a simple comprehension of bourgeois
artistic wisdom, and mainly ‘and, the fight against it.

*) “Ideology and F. Kalinin. “Proletarskaya Culture” No. 5, p. 9,
**) La, etr. 7.

3
36 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 78

Proponents of professionalism confuse the concepts in their objections. They
They say that, having become a professional, an artist will not break away from the masses.

We also think this is unlikely. But, we repeat, the point is not that
‘the proletarian can break away from the masses, but in the fact that he is professionally indifferent to what he is 0%-
depends on the production process.

But by the fact that we connect the proletarian artist with the process of production
people object to us, we, firstly, reduce our work to the level of amateurism
and, secondly, by lengthening the process of developing a proletarian artist, we attribute
the appearance of completed examples of proletarian art in the distant past
perspective.

To this we counter with the question: where and when were the deadlines established, after which
Who can be called an artist who has completed his artistic development?

Never, anywhere and under any circumstances will any artist say that
in his work he reached the last line, beyond which there is no longer any need
thank him. The creative process, the growth of the artist in his thoughts and techniqueke continuous.
Time limitations for an artist’s creativity can only be thought of in two ways:
cases: this is the physical death of the artist or the historical fall of that school,
direction to which he belongs. The latter, by the way, is the most
probable, and for some, inevitable fate of those devoted to the old world of the modern
artists of the bourgeois world that are dear to us.

Therefore, to set any deadlines for art means to underestimate
the mother of its dynamism is not to understand life itself, which gives birth to art.

In addition to all this, socialist ethics, which recognizes physical labor
the responsibility of every citizen, in’ professionalism, in the attitude of the proletarian
‚in a privileged position in relation to others, meets irreconcilable
contradiction

Finally, the position and arguments of the defenders of professionalism are directly opposed
are appropriate to the tasks that art should serve.

Until now we have been taught that art is a reflection of life. Now for nae
it must become the creativity of life, and not a dead mirror reflecting equal
the stuffy and divine smile of the Madonna and the sinister grimace of Quasimodo.

A few specific examples. Let's take the visual arts. We
We set ourselves the task that our everyday life, our whole life, be imbued with grace
and beauty. The cup on my table, the tablecloth, the table itself, the closet in which I store
books, the book itself, its shell, the walls of my home, it itself - why isn’t all this
maybe it shouldn't have artistic value? Why shouldn't all this be
works of art? If we recognize this as necessary, but this is not possible.
not to recognize what then the very process of production turns into? Won't it be
Is the factory a laboratory in which works of art are created? Won't it be
the line between creator and performer has been erased; won’t they then unite in one person?
artist and worker? This is exactly what will happen, this is exactly what we are striving for. What if
So, why is it necessary to separate the proletarian from the production process and lead.
him to art? Wouldn't it be easier to bring art there? Themmore than that’
all our aspirations in the field of art are reduced. And then...it will cease to be
only a mirror of life and will become the great thing it should be: creativity
new bright life. Why are there greenhouses for proletarian artists? Let them
tempered in the process of labor, let them be blown by the stormy winds of the class struggle.
Then they will reveal ourselves more fully and deeply, calling on the doubting and weak
into the “noisy world of struggle,” into the battle of life, “in its simum, into its crimson stream.” And you need
only one thing: do not strive to hatch a proletarian artist in six weeks, like a
Ritsa is hatching a chicken.

We have a negative attitude towards professionalism with deep conviction,
that with its help we risk getting brilliant, perhaps in technology,
but... There are few artists who are profound in their class content. Forms of drill-
zhuaz art is brilliant, but...

“Fear the Danaans and those who bring gifts!”

At this moment of intensified class struggle we need to be vigilant
more than ever. They jumped into life, posing as proletarian artists
No. 78 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 37

ikov, imagists, futurists, representatives of a deeply reactionary, dying
th ideology.

The isolation of the proletarian artist from them is not mechanical, but psychological,
it’s clear, this is our direct responsibility, and what are “specialists” is a huge pain-

Most of them, -9This was shown with sufficient clarity by the performance of the poet Balmont

and the rally at the Palace of Art.
] In conclusion, we wanted to put one not superfluous, in our opinion,
cable '.
Why has professionalism come to the fore with such activity and why is it so
protect?

We find an explanation for this fact in the fact that not only ordinary workers
construction of proletarian culture, but many of its leaders are still under-
so deeply understood what truly revolutionary actions, what cruel
‘The struggle is still ahead of us.

Methods of creativity, methods of critical assessment, bringing art to life
and life to art, all these are values that must partly be discardeds,
‘others in korya are overrated. There is still a huge amount of ideological criticism to be done here.
ical work. And in the matter of professionalism, what is valuable is that thanks to it you
A number of new fundamental and practical questions are floating around. They live, three
if there is an answer, this indicates how vital and true the path we are following is.
But they tell us: “be vigilant” and at the same time decisive.

Closer to life, deeper into it, more resistance to the obsolete, more
learning new things.

We must firmly remember: the cultural revolution is only just beginning; nagta
The task is to deepen and expand it, and not to scatter it in pursuit of cheap values.
your strength. !

V. Pletnev.

Collective creativity in the theater.
.

__. “Collective creativity”—these are the words around which so many
misunderstandings, words that are now as abused as expressions
“proletarian culture”, “proletarian writer”, “proletarian poetry”.

Some people think that collective creativity is a prerequisite
proletarian work in the field of science and art, that outside of it there can be no
what ways to develop a new culture. Of course, this is a mistake. Many products
knowledge created by individuals, 003 visible participation of the masses, can be
and will be the true cornerstones of socialist culture, according to
to the extent that they reflect the will of the collective, the aspirations and hopes of the working class,
ideology and worldview of the proletariat.

Like some works (scientific and artistic), which reflect great
This ideal of communism entered the treasury of roller-coaster culture, being
created not only through individual efforts, but even by people from the bourgeoisie
environment, just as in the future many creations may be born, not as a result
‘the work of the team, and ultimately the creativity of individuals. Perhaps even

What kind of individual (not individualistic!) creativity will be more widespread?
‘stranger than now, precisely in view of the fact that the human personality itself will

Foley is diversified, better prepared for youthe manifestation of their abilities.

Of course, this creativity of individuals in the society of the future will be imprinted
‘the stamp of collectivism and will reflect the new communist psychology,
but, despite the collectivism of its content and its spiritual connection ‘with the masses,
it will not be collective creativity.

There is also another simplified idea of ​​collective creativity.

.

\
38 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 7-3

1

Every crowd, every mass is considered a collective, and its performance is more creative.”
stvom. Therefore, they boldly bring the choir’s performance in oneer under this concept, mnsgo-
voice declamation, crowd scenes in dramatic works, popular
round dances, etc.

In this case, a double error is allowed. First of all, not every statement is
However, not every action is “creativity”; Creativity does not mean everything -_
some kind of filling. learned program, namely the creation of something new (at least.
within the program), takeoff, overcoming, victory. Therefore, not everyone
a work of art is the result of creativity - it can be created by medicine -
howl with the hand of a man working from behind. dekeg, without. any burning, no struggle
for the sake of better achieving the intended goal. |

Secondly, the mass is not always a collective. To become one
it must have not only internal unity and a certain organization,
but also unity of spirit, kinship of feelings, commonality of tasks and, most importantly, universal
penitent thought about the highest interests of the whole.

Each team member must consciously strive to embody the highest
shi. interests of the whole, to comprehensively identify the ideal of the prosletariat - commugism.
The specific task posed must be clear enough for everyone to meet.
start a completely conscious relationship with yourself. Finally, the organization of creativity itself
must be based on the principles of partnership, alien to any authoritarianism"
ity and giving wide scope to criticism. a

in

So that these general and inevitably somewhat abstract and schematic
to make it more understandable, I will outline, to the best of my abilitye and in what form is collective
creativity can be applied in the theater.

First of all, we must clarify that by the word theater I mean everything theatrical.
modern art in its entirety, including more primitive forms of theater: games,
round dances, processions, folk festivals, etc. It is these mass “actions”
despite their rudimentary nature from the point of view of theatrical skill, especially.
valuable to us because they awaken the theatrical instinct among the masses and give
give us the basis for the future of mass theater, where the gap between actors will disappear 7
and a spectator, where the creative team will be the whole mass as a whole:

For example, we will outline the following paths for collective theatrical creativity.

First of all, the team itself working in the field of theater must include,
includes diverse categories of participants, and by no means only persons directly
associated with theatrical activities, i.e. in relation to Proletkult: m
It must be said that all of their studios should be involved in theatrical creativity:
literary, musical, pictorial, etc. The bourgeois spirit infused
discord between the arts, which had to be creatively synthesized into.
theater True literature broke away from the theater, and the suppliers of plays became
minor artisans. Great artists also found themselves “out of work.”
in the theater and failed to merge with theatrical work. Even many of the largest
composers were overthrown by the theater or failed to find ways to the stage. So.
under the bourgeois labor force, their own cadres of “suppliers” were created - writers, their own)
artists, their musicians,

We must oppose this discord and specialization with the help of art.
community of all arts on the theatrical stage, friendly teamwork
proletarian writers, artists, painters, musicians. |

But it is not only this association of representatives of various industries that is important.
art, the very system of orthotization of the creative team is also significant. Oops,
should be built on the principles of friendly partnership, i.e. exclude.
all kinds of carsprestige and bureaucratic perarchy, leaving wide room
criticism and give a large share of the initiative to every ordinary participant in the work.

Creative team. will be able to work pleasantly and fruitfully only’ in!
in the event that a kind of equality is naturally established among its members—
equality of all participants in theatrical work. Actor and director, prompter
mm7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 39

and stagehand, electrical engineer and artist, make-up artist and musician should consider
to be equally necessary creators of the stage whole’ and have a wide (at least
potential) opportunity to prove oneself, to provide assistance in post-
new, act as a critic, etc. d, & .

Only with the presence of such a truly comradely organization are possible
experiences of collective creativity,

The bourgeois theater knew only post-Anovka directors who single-handedly
according to their own understanding (albeit in consultation with specialists), they directed the entire
working on the play. We can make an attempt to break with this tradition
and select from all the studios involved in the production a special board, where
will include, for example, an artist, a musician, an artist, a writer, etc. d. This board will
direct the production (“staging the show?”), all the time involving in active participation
in their work, all the strength of the studios, so that all the details of the production are consistent
and creatively worked out during rehearsals.

This, of course, does not mean at all that the issues of formulation will be resolved
somehow by majority vote and the leadership group will vie with each other
instructions to artists. Of course, the actual management of rehearsals in each
the moment will only be in the hands of one of the members of the board, but during the rehearsals
will confer with other co-members, and before and after the rehearsal, all the main points
productions will be discussed both within the management team and at a wider level
meeting of all participants.

But this system of conducting work will be fruitful only if the TCM is not
provided that each participant was, as far as possible, universalflax ra“
botnik, so that he not only clearly understands the general tasks of the formulation,
but he was also aware of all the details. To do this, we must try to ensure that participants
productions you performed, although in partial size, the work of both the author of the play and
director, decorator, and actor. Everyone must create their own director's plan
productions, give the play your own interpretation, work out (in literary terms)
text of the play, go through individual roles (as an artist), think about it, maybe," naors*
build the scenery, take care of the musical side of the production, etc.

Of course, this does not mean that all this complex work will completely fall apart.
on the shoulders of each participant. Of course, the director or the person who feels
attraction to this work, will pay more attention to directing and a little acting,
a writer or one who gravitates towards literature is mainly concerned with the play itself; and
etc. But it is important that all elements of the work are mastered by everyone, so that everyone
He did not confine himself to his specialty, but also did the work of others.

Only with such universalism (which will be characteristic of the system of the future)
general) there will be a conscious attitude towards creative work and that depth,
without which such collective creativity is unthinkable,

This universalism will help to reveal talents in all their diversity,
`© will naturally make the comments of all participants in the discussion valuable and significant
new products, regardless of their narrow specialty.

Affairs” experiences of collective creativity in the theater, we must abandon
timid pout in front of the text. plays. We will take it only as a basis, as
suitable plot or material; and in “their work we will become sub-
subject it to significant changes and alterations. This reworking of the text is
is due not only to the lack of a suitable repertoire and the lack of stage presence of many
good plays, but also the need to cultivate a reception among the proletarian masses
literary creativity. }

I imagine the production progressing this way. Has anyone hinted at post-
new two or three plays. At a meeting of the Prolegulty Affairs studiosa report on these
plays, excerpts read, discussed. For some play, a natural pain is noticed -
sheb gravity. After final discussion and voting, the play was selected.
Then a leadership cell is selected, where, if possible, representatives should be represented.
There are various studios, different specialties. ,

The study of the play begins. Here, of course, the main work of literary
studio, with the participation of all others. Critical analyzes of plays are being written, plans are being made
their interpretation, the initial notes are made. When this’ preliminary
40 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7—8

the work is completed, the discussion of the director's plan begins, and in connection with it
decorative and musical aspects of the production.

This work is carried out both in the management board, and in the studios, and in broad settings.
participants' oranges. The director's team takes into account all this work, it is considered
with her, but, of course, can choose his own paths and agree not with the dominant ones
opinions, but with those for which a minority speaks.

In the process of reactions, the play undergoes a new literary revision,
at the same time, the initial plans for the production change in the course of business,
Roles are redistributed, transformed! musical part, etc.;

So, little by little, from the efforts of individuals and groups, a play is born in a completely
ready for presentation.

For these ‘attempts at collective creativity to become more successful, it is necessary
in addition to the universalism of actors, to develop their ability to improvise.
Starting with improvisations of small scenes, we must move on to more complex imitations.
visions with many participants and even the creation of entire plays, according to the chosen
no topic. or the plot.

Working on improvisations will develop not only the imagination of the participants;
kov, but ‘and promote the ability to create in instinctive close collaboration with
others. It is from here that the ability to be an active creator of folk festivals will be born.
festivities and processions.

When working on collective creativity in the theater, we must not forget that it is
just one of the methods of creating a new theater,not at all exclusive of all others
the path to the proletarian theater. We must also keep in mind that we are now
only at the stage of initial experiments. There are no corresponding
There are no existing precedents, there is no developed system. Errors and misconceptions are natural,
which can be corrected only after testing collective techniques
creativity. In the absence of such accumulated experience, we must apply
new method with caution, critically checking yourself all the time.
correcting.

Experiments: collective creativity in the theater will be fruitful only if
provided that suitable literary material is selected for the work, i.e.
ideas, one way or another reflecting the interests of the collective, close to the communist
to the ideal. |

Now, of course, there are almost no such plays, but it is possible, it will be remade in a new
spirit of some of the previous dramatic works. It should also be
call literary studios’ Proletkults and proletarian writers to work
for the theater. When 'studios of various kinds start working together, writers
from the working class’ will naturally be drawn into and interested in twatr. In the meantime
we will have to use the old repertoire for collective creativity with the necessary
by its processing and alteration.

In the theatrical work of Proletkult, as in all other branches of activity,
ity, the main thing is the main goal towards which the leaders of the proletarian movement strive
culture. Methods of work, no matter how important they are in themselves; are already subordinate
plan. Therefore, when using collective creativity, Proletkult dividers
must not forget the main goal. Collective creativity will be useless
and will kill itself, if it created purely individualistic products
management Only in a harmonious combination of new methods with a new, higher goal—
the key to the success of Proletkult’s work.

V. Nerzhentsev.
No. 73 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 4t

0 futuristic.

When we are going to talk about futurism/we will not resort to the usual method,
which makes it possible to give examples from specificmanifestations of his creativity
qualities that clearly show the senselessness of the futurists' tricks, nonsense =
nykh and to the “creators” themselves. The futurists provide such material in great abundance. But
You won’t get through the futurists this way. Indications for meaningless container: bar-
The criticism presented by the futurists does not confuse them at all and does not hinder them
and move from defense to attack. Standing in a majestic pose of contempt,
futurists take up the coattails of history—which, by the way, when they need to
necessary, they deny it, and begin to mutter through clenched teeth: “and the Symbolists, and Cezanne, and
Picasso, when they came on stage, did you understand”? - they ask triumphantly
futurists. Often the person being asked was embarrassed and thought to himself: “Ah. the devil knows them
Maybe I really have fallen behind the times and have become mothballed.” Embarrassment is often
It went on and on, those who denied futurism began to find something in them and fell silent.

So, show the futurists their own dance-like antics
savages in front of a fire—the fun is largely empty. It is important for us
find out the social nature of futurism and its social significance. But the preliminary
Finally, we will allow ourselves to dwell on their understanding of form in art:
In No. 17 "The Art of the Commune" form is considered as being, determining
‹awareness. In this case, the writers of this newspaper do not understand at all that the
in art there is simply a frozen ideology that determines the content
It can’t, but serves only as a way of organizing it. Development and change in form

° we occur in the process of overcoming it with the content of being, when we organize

washed material. does not correspond or does not fit into the established form.
In the same issue they point to Alexander Veselovsky, who put

° the beginning of the history of literary form. By this they want to prove the freedom of form from pre-

locality, everyday life, etc. d. It is true that the history of literature can be studied as history
form, the question of art can be considered as a question of form par excellence,
{0 it does not and cannot follow from this that the form is aboutdetermined by form, not
content. Not a single clever person has yet proven that forms developed from forms outside

’ connection with the content, and will never prove it. Consider the form according to

To “ebe” means to engage in metaphysics, empty chatter, and, of course, nothing in common
© Marxism will not have this. . .

The method of production of material life determines economic relations.
mission of people. In this way, content is created, which in turn determines
divides the form. What is futurism? This is a social phenomenon of capitalism
ical system, bourgeois ideology that has reached its limits. final
development. This is the dying tossing of the bourgeois spirit, its stupefaction - the pre-
feeling doom. From here come all the twists, wild dances, quackery,
magic trick, feast during the plague. According to popular belief, the devil is afraid of Ladag,
and bourgeois ideologists in art and other fields, during the period of decrepitude of capital-
listic system, they also fear and shun the mind of consciousness. Material
the basis of the bourgeoisie is private property and private means of production,
formed during the period of imperialism into a socialized form, which created within
bourgeois system contradictions that deny private property and all related
a new system of relations between people and their entire ideology. Naturally
that under such conditions there are reasons to shun reason and its logic.

The path of development of ideology, determined by the mode of production, which in capital
listic system was already turning into a socialized form, in the form of trusts,
cartels, etc., because of which the contours of ©0-
'cialist economy - this path could not attract the eyes of the bourgeoisie to ©0-
knowledge. Bourgeois ideologists had hope and faith in the power of consciousness of reason
and torn. Logic of consciousness, summing up and generalizing the developing form

| production, clearly and irreversibly revealed the picture of the impending destruction of the foundation
42 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-8

bourgeois system—private property. This is where it came fromoh passionate,
screaming love for abstruseness, for abstruse speech and words. Hence the howl of the futurists
about his genius, his greatest feature. This roar alone and en masse
expresses the despair of mortal melancholy, the premonition of one’s death. Aching and pinching
real melancholy rises from the deep dark bottom of the soul and compels futurists
drown out the delight with a stunned cry and assure themselves, including themselves, of what they believe.
and you yourself don’t believe it, you remember, reader, how excellently he portrayed this kind of type.”
the brilliant Dostoevsky in Notes from the House of the Dead. There he has one of
types, whose entire activity is expressed in walking from cell to cell and
ric repetition of one phrase: “But he’s lying all the time, but he’s a enemy...” His
no one listens or pays attention to him; from this the pain of melancholy still
more painful, and he tries in a hoarse and tired voice to repeat endlessly 6es-
©a meaningful phrase, and this may be. saves him from immediate finality’
madness. Our futurists are shouting for the same reasons.

In No. 8 of the “Iskusstet Kommune” they write. about the torn consciousness of “the greatest.
poet of our time. Khlebnikov." For futurists, the absence of its fellow.
the elementary logic of meaning is their greatest achievement.

“Torn consciousness,” you see, gives boundless and boundless pro-
side of intuition to walk through the forms. Poor Writers of the “Art of the Communists”
took upon themselves the unfortunate task of being futurist theorists and the even more unfortunate one:
the task of attaching futurism to Marxism, to its historical materialism (see No. 17
“Claim. Koch."). Oh, poor writers of the "Art of the Commune", don't you see,
Why are you sewing with threads that are too white and completely rotten!? That's what it means to have
“torn consciousness” is like the devils in the eyes, when everything seems to be wrong,

Marxism is a teaching that indicates the path of human development,
from the elements of anarchy and chaos to the triumph of the logic of consciousness.

Remember the words of Engels: “From the kingdom of necessity the proletariat will make
jump into the kingdom of St.rims." Marxists understand this simply: the power of consciousness
in a socialist society will come to its triumph over spontaneity and service
tea. True, your intuition will not be allowed to roam freely, but forms, s0>
knowledge will establish strict control over it, nerds will be sent to treatment
prostrate But here we are not able to help your grief. Historical necessity"
The power of the steel tread of a measured step fetters not only your weak strength.”
and weak intuition, it grinds into powder even such a fat and seasoned beast,
like the imperialist bourgeoisie.

By attaching themselves to socialism in the revolution, the futurists, as a sign of theirs.
affinities with socialism, they like to point out that the bourgeoisie also persecuted
she persecuted them, just like the socialists. Vonros of the affinity of futurists with socialists is a prize.
One has to cast a very big doubt as to the persecution of them.
on the part of the bourgeoisie, then it really was, but only completely, completely
other reasons, not at all similar to those for which the bourgeoisie ‘arranged,
persecution against socialists. The bourgeoisie knew well that futurism was its offspring,
but at the same time, she instinctively felt that in the form of futuristic performances
stov, in their luggage lurks a harbinger of the death of the bourgeoisie, like in the back of a lover’s head.”
Oleg's horse (according to legend) concealed his death. The futurists were for the bourgeoisie
a mirror that prematurely showed her fate, the prospects for her growing
life and death, she turned away from the futurists, squinted her eyes,
not to see her fate, the look of which covered her heart with a deadly cold
house of impending doom.

Futurists are against everyday life, objectivity, etc., etc. etc. in the same way. And yet.
futurism itself in every country with all its national characteristics.
there is everyday life. In the West, where capitalism is much more developed and firmly rooted in society,
new life, futurism did not have such revelry and unbridledness as ours. There
bourgeois idologists, in order to obscure and slow down the coming collapse,
capitalism, comingdiminished and adapted more. subtle and varied thesria,
intuitionism, philosophical mysticism and other very subtle matter, which
with which they blocked themselves from the yawning path of historical human development"
society.
No. 7-8. ` PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 43:

Quite different - Russian futuri:m: given the backwardness of our capitalism and its
weaknesses. futurism unconsciously served as a screaming barometer, vividly reflecting
We have a presentiment of the catastrophe of capitalist society, which must "
was to happen sooner than in other countries, and to come up with subtle cover-
there were no “sl and vrem” theories, according to the “omui metang of our Futurgam”
it was so unbridled and crazy. He felt with all his intuition the underground
the sound of an impending explosion. In this sense, futurism is a historical necessity
a bridge, but a step already passed. Now all that remains of him are those who are adapting
debris that produces dust that infects the lungs of those flying with tuberculosis
Riata. We have a responsibility to disinfect and install valves--
tion according to the latest technology.

Can the proletariat follow futurism or in its footsteps? Clearly not:
the proletariat and futurism are antipodes. The proletariat cannot follow the path you...
twists and performs dislocations of a torn consciousness. This is alien to his ideology
and does not approach it from any end. A rich creative field stretches out before him...
stva, along the path of harmonious logic. He will have grandiose buildings, complex
derived from the reserves of rich subconscious experience, identified intuitively, obli-
that abundant juice. feelings. and ©knitting with the powerful cohesive force of logic—-
cement of consciousness. The prospects for the development of the human spirit are limitless, complex
The variety of his patterns is innumerable, the celebration of artistic creativity should
to be introduced into a conscious ideal. Fill it with whatever material you like.”
intuition, but all this must be strictly and... closely connected with the ideal, under vigilance
physical control of consciousness, the path of abstruse language and abstruse colors is the path"
charlatanism and lies’ in front of oneselfthemselves, cowardice in front of the shining ideal and
the perspective of humanity moving forward. 'Sadness for the sake of preserving se--
today and running away before tomorrow.

‚Fyodor Kalinin.

"Poetry of the Soviet province."

In issue No. 3 of the magazine “Proletarskaya Kultura” I published an article about the
tivah of working poetry. It marked the stages through which thought passed
poet-worker from the seventies of the last century, before the February revolution
1917, r No.

“At that time I was hoping to give a second article, an article on proletarian poetry
in the sense that we interpret it on the pages of our magazine. For a long time
I collected the material carefully. And now. I have before me more than a thousand poems
creations taken from the provincial Soviet press. You need to be aware of the
reader, when I looked through about two hundred poems, I became
It is clear that there are no hints of proletarian poetry in the provincial press. Provin-
social editors are too undemanding of authors and publish things that
which have absolutely nothing to do with true creativity.

But they may ask us why we leave aside the capital’s poets.
bochih—Samobytnik, Kirillov, Pomorsky, Gerasimov, Aleksandrovsky,
Sadofiev and others. We have already written enough about them on the pages of our magazine.
Nala, all of them are active figures in Proletkult and are well known
reading comrades. We wanted to look into the provincial carcass of the
bochev's life and trace modern sentiments there. We must admit it openly."
that the province is very, very far behind the capital. All the themes of the poems, of course,
dictated by new times, bear traces of the breath of the proletarian revolution
tions, but they are primitive, roughly processed and often, despite the proletarian
terminology, developed in the spirit of general civil motives of liberal
individualistic intelligentsia.

It’s natural not to write down the article that was floating in front of my consciousness:
will have to. Nevertheless, the collected material had a certain value in other ways.

—
®
44 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. \ No. 78

thought. It will give a vivid picture of how provincial life reflects
the secular press, how widely it covers it and how deeply it penetrates into
“the essence of unfolding events and the ongoing construction of a new life.

Kommersant
The collected material convinces us, first of all, that provincial poetry

It does not have a strictly class character in proletarian poetry. And this is quite understandable.
Some of the poems were written by the intelligentsia, some by peasants or workers,

Those who have not yet had time to break their ties with the village and with its entire way of life. |

These authors, of course, speak more than once about communism, and even world communism,
but the psychology characteristic of these groups of society greatly affects their

"poems. The influence of bourgeois revolutionary ideology also affects people in general,

which undoubtedly belonged to the workers. The flock culture is so strong
still holds the worker’s thoughts and feelings that the author’s belonging even to the Hindu
<trial proletariat, therefore, a purer and more re-
'dovovom, does not save his work from the influence of the old bourgeois-revolutionary
atsychology and even the liberal formulation of their aspirations and aspirations, associated
associated with the communist revolution. This is especially noticeable in the cycle
“poems that can be entitled “Freedom.”

This cycle is full of headlines: “Forward”, “Alarm”, “Fire”, “Red Bell”,
“Free Russia”, “Freedom”, etc. and there are no poems that would be
heading "Communism" or "Socialism". The thought of the mass worker has not yet mastered
butted by the liberal concept of freedom.

Let me take a few examples:

1) “From want and severe adversity, 3) “Freedom, freedom, freedom,
From heavy and gloomy captivity Everywhere, everywhere, everywhere.
A free people has come out into the light, That is the cry of awakening of the people,
To the bright days of reserved freedoms." Hymn to the rising dawn.

2) “And the people, having broken the shackles, a new life has come,

And throwing away oppression, a new time has come:
According to the path of new progress, everyone rebelled against slavery,
Go farno." The bloody sun has risen."

In the examples given, no class point of view, of course, is accepted.
Rish. People, progress, freedom... this is a purely intellectual-liberal form-
"Literature behind which it is difficult to even judge the origin of the author. Other things
“more extreme; peasant dreams were fully reflected in them:

Here, for example, is the fairy tale “The Red Woodman”:

“The oak tree falls into the snow with its roots. Plowing the dawn fire-faced
The tormented forest is humming, ringing, It will crumble grains.

And in the thickets of Red Dennitsa And in the place of the bear’s den
The arrival of a spring day sings... The rye will shine in the rays,
Instead of raw and wild darkness, the gloom of a wretched kingdom will remain,
The plowman will wander here. The midnight fear of slavery will disappear...

And only occasionally do you come across strictly class-based things that sound absolutely
really differently:

“Having called people from the outskirts, And the formidable, great

From slave labor, Yesterday's slaves,

He, welded together by willpower, Like fire-faced whirlwinds,
Came, came here, From the storms of the rest of the struggle
To destroy the temples of the lords, forge their own shining temple
And build proletarian streets in the rays of the sparkling dawn,

Giant cities. . Temple of Future Destiny."
No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 45

This thing is reminiscent of A. Pomorsky’s poem “Workers’ Palace”, Pravda „
it is weaker in terms of technical and depth of content, but in the author
one can feel the proletarian with him. revolutionary temperament; he doesn't have any empty ones
words about all-conquering truth, about eternal truth, he has no pointless dreams -
0 Tom, So that “to forget human vulgarity”, so that “soar carelessly in the heights, freely
butt, easy, lonely.” I feel like the author is starting to build a new
of the new temple, with “a song poured out of steel, smoke, soot, dust - a song poured out
from blood, at a factory machine,” as the same author writes in another poem.

But such verses are rare among thousands, there are no more than five in total...
‘ten. They do not yet have the desired depth of content, but the very presentation of the topic and
an attempt to give their proletarian feeling highlight this group of poems andpressed
look at them in more detail. By their nature they fit the cycle’
“Freedom”, but they have more defined headings and are distinguished by greater con-
more carefully than the first.

The call to construction, a new life, the struggle of the worker against capital, inter-
national revolution, characteristics of the worker and his relationship to the peasants
styu—these are the topics of the second group. The topics themselves require a definite class response.
Veta, and it is given with more or less clarity, although not always to wave 060.
known.

The worker-poet calls for building a new life with the words:

“Go for it. There's a wide road ahead,
Lay bricks, iron and concrete,

And let the whole world come, at a new threshold
Listen to the squeals of the saws and the ringing of our songs.”

This call reaches the broad working masses: workers and peasants. But according to
You cannot identify the author from the responses. In most cases, their sentiments coincide.

The peasant poet imagines a new world like this:

“In the kingdom of a new world, peace, .

You will not know the pains of hard work,
There will be a different time to live.

The world will rise renewed in golden radiance
Over nature, washed with tears,

And the struggle of the bloody and evil days will subside,
There will be brotherhood then. between us.
There will be no formidable oppressors then,
A man will forget the battlefield,

No slaves, no mighty rulers, no court,
There will be no need in this world.

The proud mind of man will rise 'high

At the stage of great happiness.

Darkness, ignorance, dirt will move far away,
And the bad weather will cease forever.”

After reading these lines, you can immediately tell that the author is an intellectual
or a peasant, but not a proletarian, in his words there is not even a hint of a proletarian
Chinese ideology; One can rather feel Nadson and the motives of his time.

Here are the worker's poems:

“I believe: a new life will come,

Justice will reign in her;
Self-interest, anger, deceit will disappear irrevocably,
Envy will disappear and give way to happiness

That place in people's hearts,

Where did she hide, poisonous like a snake;
"46 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-5

The sting will be torn out from her;
Brotherhood, equality, work and love
Salt to everyoneut,

They won't give |

To shed blood in the world...

Moods; characteristic exclusively of the proletarian, is not felt
in these poems of the worker, the same general phrases about love, peace, happiness as in the first.
The proletarian, as a creator, is labor and collective creativity, as the basis of the future
“Cultures are beyond the purview of the authors. They still live with liberal sentiments
spring poetry with its vague, sentimental ideas about the new
life. All this, of course, can be found in socio-historical explanations.
and justifications, but in this case it’s not about them; we have to admit that
and a provincial worker, a contributor to workers' newspapers, expresses his feelings
yato-old, bourgeois-liberal.

And only occasionally will a verse flash in which a truly new feeling beats.

°ness, daring, bright, young, captivating you.

< "With a fearless proud face
The worker showed up...
And life was a hurricane
The whirring of machines,
The hiss of cars
And sparks from thousands of furnaces...
And the song was heard
Rabbit shackles,
Unbent backs
Extended hundreds of shoulders, '
And the city was tossed up by a bursting wave
Hasty and stormy work,
And the sun splashed with a victorious stream
© azure heights...
And work, inspired by a mighty rush
To move forward
Persistent. with your achievement,
Clear goals
Brightly beautiful,
Creates a bright life"

The poet takes the city as a creative force, as a collective with a “clear goal”, which
Rory creates a “bright, beautiful, bright life,” and this alone already distinguishes him from
fyad others.
\ There are also poems about work, but they smack of antiquity, abstraction, and even
fetishize work:
“The pride of the world is calluses,
The happiness of life is local labor,
Don't curse this share,
So that we don’t fall asleep at all”

titasm we are in the same provincial gas station. In these populist lines, which
Of course, there is little working understanding of labor and its role in life.

The authors reveal more consciousness in poems dedicated to
about the revolution and the October Todovshchina, There are many such poems, and they have more power
and feelings. All authors, one way or another, talk about strugglewithout two classes, two late-
fairies, two hostile worlds; they emphasize more the communist ha-
coup factor.

"Death to enemies,

Death to the damned lordship,
We will erect a proletarian temple,
We will declare a labor kingdom.”
No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 4

"This basic idea is common to many authors. Some do not think about the difficult
With these victories of the revolution, others see dangers, but both believe that;

“The outcome of the struggle is written in fate, And we believe that the time will come,
Iskuilon with centuries-old torment; And he’s close, he’s already close,

In a bright and high impulse, when the last blow strikes,
Our young giant is growing stronger. And the old world will be destroyed." |

It is also interesting to note how deeply the idea that
the cup of victory depends on the world proletarian revolution.

The authors welcome the Terman revolution, mourn the defeat of Sparta
sheep, rejoice at the awakening of the proletariat in England, Bulgaria and other countries.
‘nah, they send curses to the murderers of K. Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg, they believe that;

“The moment of international struggle,
In the struggle of the working masses it has come,

For the people’s peace of the commune’
The working class has risen up to fight."

In some poems one can see the authors’ impatience and a share of skepticism and revolutionary
tionality of Western workers; sometimes one hears reproaches that our revolution can
but to be defeated due to the lack of their support. The content of this series is
wishes. Undoubtedly, it is determined by the agitation that is being conducted in the country.

t

Many poems refer to war, prisoners, Red Army soldiers, deserters
shooting galleries, White Guards, their executions and defeats, allies, diplomats, etc.
“The two-year civil war that engulfed all of Russia naturally left
in the minds of people there are many bright moments and indelible experiences, tormenting
bright and joyful. But all this was developed one-sidedly and primitively, without any
experiments to penetrate into the psychology of the parties fighting to the death, exclusively
< political side and in general phrases. War is the idea of the capitalists, the priests
take an oath so that the people stand for their homeland; aour people are in their spiritual darkness
exterminated his brother: the worker and the peasant, and only woke up, ‘intoxicated
blood, with the onset of the revolution, Pale, weak and thin captive, “this is—
a victim of capital, this is a martyr of kings.” However, there is one poem dedicated to
valuable to a disabled person, which the author ends with words of consolation that the imperial
The static war brought us the proletarian revolution. r

“It’s hard to live and breathe, You knocked down the king with a piece of wood,
Like a piece of wood knocking on a coffin, We will put an end to worldwide robbery
But, comrade, you are not suffering in vain, And in our own way we will restore Rus'.”

Among the piles of rather monotonous and monotonous poems for half-
It is necessary to note that these paintings are also peculiarly rare.

The Red Army soldier is usually portrayed as an ideological and conscious defender
revolution, which, unfortunately, is not always the case; like a hero who says to himself:

“In my past there is only grief, Labor will remember me with glory
I have nothing more to regret. My duty is to destroy the stranglers...

I kindled a sea of fire, maybe tomorrow at this time
“And I’m not afraid to die. “I will be n@ forever.

Let me fall in a bloody war: Thundering the criminal nobility tribe,
My son will live freely and die under the banner of labor.”

This Red Army soldier has his own proletarian commander, who,

“Like he - <yn of the people,
Sslskaya Niva and plant,
In a gray rolled up overcoat,
Overshadowed with a red flag."
48 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-8

Full of faith in victory, going on a campaign, they console their relatives, —-

mother, wife, children:
“Don’t fog your eyes, wife.

An involuntary tear running down,
Be strong even in sleepless nights,
win, believe in the holy slogan...
"Goodbye, don't cry, don't kill yourself,
Take care of your little son."

And suddenly this ideal Red Army soldier, full of enthusiasm and dedication,
turns into a “damned little head”, into a “Russian type”. The author draws this,
how... but we better use the author himself; this will be clearer:

“Avon, red shirt, Legs walk on their own,
Hear, the accordion’s sharp creak, Can’t hold back calmlyech,
This is him, dear bird, And the harmonica outputs:

This is our Russian type! “Go, go, go. oven",

This is our dear Ermoshka, reckless and careless,

Oh, and he lives happily; , The first guy in the village,

His accordion is always with him, Our Ermoshka is all songs,

How the furs will spread, Tipsy without wine...

The guys and girls will surround us, Our Ermoshka himself doesn’t bother,
A daring boy—: This guy is going to disappear
He starts to attack, and then they beat him, “He serves under the red flag—”
And square dance and trepaka. And he plays and sings."

We will not think about what the public is. author's position and why
he depicted the Red Army soldier so picturesquely. One thing I would like to say is that if in Krasnaya
army] are Ermoshki, then they are alone, like the author himself.

t

The conversations and instructions of the proletarian commanders are also not uninteresting:

“There is no quiet life anywhere, and when the studies end,

As in military service, do whatever you want:

None of us feel at home here, sing and dance in our barracks,
There’s no such thing as being worried... Or go to the city.”

This is how one author enlightens; the other gives more business-like instructions: they are very
forge a Red Army soldier so that when he goes to battle, he checks everything, inspects it, captures
used soap, thread, a needle, a mug, a spoon, an inseparable bowler - he was brave and
not cowardly. And the bourgeoisie, if he asks: “Wasn’t life better with! king? -

"Give him no mercy,
'Hit it in the face with your fist.'

This is how an enlightened Red Army soldier, having “strangled” his enemies, dreams of Christmas
get to Moscow, and in the meantime he writes an affectionate letter to his wife:

“I’ll bring my beloved a lot of bread,
I'll feed and nourish my beauty!

I'll kiss her scarlet face,

And at dawn I’ll just go out onto the porch!...”
“Her chest rises like a foamy wave,
And lips are drunker than drunken wine."
“The scythe scattered like a river,

Eyes light up like stars...

Our Red Army soldiers, as the reader can see, live quite varied
moods, but they die, according to the collected material, always as heroes,
as a “bastion of freedom.” We have some doubts about Ermoshka, but, however,
there are all sorts of miracles in the world.

No. 7-5 PROLETARIANCULTURE. 49

The poems of the White Guards are especially primitive,
sacred to Denikin, Krasnov, Kolchak, Milyukov and others. The authors are not
find words to stigmatize their counter-revolutionary plans. These are the "killers"
vile, despicable lackeys, slaves of darkness and evil”, “vile, bloody villains”, “with
with a terrible gnashing without conscience and honor, with malice in their hearts.” All this, of course, is true
Vilna; but from poetry, even if purely civil, more is still required,
than choosing strong words. \

Allies and diplomats are honored in a special form—the fable: “The Diplomat and the Plow,”
“House Friends” (dog and pig), “Fox” (Wilson), “Three Brothers”, etc. All

These fables are imbued with good-natured irony, which does not even turn into sarcasm. Mo-
their goal is one:

“The Bot will not betray, “the pig will not eat, Sweep away Soviet Russia,
Therefore, the union of bourgeois countries can wait for an evil fate,
Having created an insidiously evil plan, the Pig, the Bulldog and the Donkey.”

The province also responded to the invitation of the allies to the Princes' Islands.
But she thought about the question: “Didn’t those who want to knock us down with their heads?”
Let’s make us your slaves.” “Again, Sverdlov did not give permission to pre-
method of self-determination,” and everyone unanimously decided not to go to the Princes’ Islands.
“Trotsky will go. Well, that’s great,”

it.

A whole series of poems relate to various groups and strata of society:
workers, peasants, intellectuals, clergy, etc.

All authors are imbued with deep love for the proletariat, it could not be otherwise
to be; but not one of them was able to give a living figure of the worker of the previous time.
me, nor the period of our revolution. These are either the Idsalists, the fighters for the “great holy
the truth,” or the titans, geniuses who “create fire from ice crystals,” This or
screaming their fate, their “forced labor”, or “power—the elements, uratan.”
The worker, with his revolutionary and ordinary life, did not attract the attention of poets;

‘the latter did not even figure out his social role; except for general phrases

about the fight against capital and attempts to clarify relations with the village. Nand the reproaches of the peasants -
Nina, that the proletarian lives an easy factory life, the worker replies:

“You and I are brothers; 'I'm drilling into the depths of the earth,
I am a worker, you are a man, I mine steel and copper,
Our tight hugs - I will reward you generously _
Death and doom for rulers. For yours. labor and food. '
I forge, you plow the field, `Remember, “brothers from the factory,
We both live by hard work, Blacksmiths in a blue blouse
We are both striving for a bright will, given to you by nature...
With a fight. every step we take. . You and I are both creators.”

There are poems dedicated to communists. The latter are all extraordinary people, -
heroes, enthusiasts. And only one was found, which... "red and yellow ribbon
pulled Kerenki" and "milked his country like a cash cow," for which in the end he
pov and ended up in emergency.

The working man also woke up; he shook off the yoke of adversity, became a formidable
zen and great:

“Man, shaggy bastard,
The eagle became mighty and winged,
He opened his eyes, relaxed,
Let's take away his mind. caught fire."
And in general:
E "Village, and you blushed
And she sang new songs, *
I forgot icons, bows, `
They fell silent. fruitless moans"
50

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. , L 7-8

Children, too, are infected with the spirit of the times. On a long, bitter evening, having climbed onto
/

pay, they:

“They listen sensitively about joy and fears,
That the ‘bourgeoisie must be taken with hostility...

And their eyes sparkle like sparks,

And your fists clench tighter.”

There are poems in which the social role of the peasant is strongly

increases:

“And spread the infection in all directions
Great social revolution,

Only you alone are capable of this,
Silent, good-natured, simple-faced:
I did it, I quacked, I wiped the sweat from my face with my goat,
And you stand and look - cheerful and good-natured.

Oh, the unsolved block for centuries...

Russia is not a howling land for this.”

The poet is carried away, the “unsolved block” has long been solved; her social role
precisely clarified and weighed, and as for the social revolution, he
respects his own economy, in conditions of equality of political rights.
The revolution has not yet overcome the petty-bourgeois expectations of the peasantrye and times-
it cannot organically carry the infection in the social revolution for many reasons
reasons that have long been clarified by Marxism.

The intellectual is portrayed as a saboteur or a person confused in new
conditions, he has lost his way, and the worker asks him reproachfully:

“Why are you silent? Or maybe you don't see
That exhausted people stood like a wall|... /

Are you the one who, in the name of freedom,\
There, in Siberia; suffered in chains?

Shame on you! you, reasonable and sensitive,
Yours. you don’t want to help your brothers.” yy

The “spiritual fathers” get a lot of trouble.” The authors spare no colors for them. “This is—
that one is a former bailiff, only. hair with a tail,” he reports to the wound, present
acts during executions, pulling [from the living and the dead, deceiving and stripping the dark

people. /a
“The priest is always happy: he cites on him there,
whether someone is rich or dead, he looks at our women himself...
He’s going to see such a dead man. He’s used to eating a lot,
Take e10.out of the house; And he got eaten up, “like a bull,”

Along the way, ‘goes’ to mother:

“The butt is full of fat, and it has become difficult to get close

Just like a cow became, “The priest and the priest will get along”...

.

Their situation worsened when the Executive Committees began to open the relics. Priest-
The married 'spiritual fathers stand with their eyes downcast, and the provincial triumphs:

“Oh yeah, power, that’s power!” . G The “Reverend” will be unswaddled,
Covered 60 all sides... And opened for the eyes

No—it seems the secret is simpler: The material is very convenient
Cotton wool, bones and cardboard... For... heating stoves."...

' and ®
This whole story is causing confusion in heaven. Apostle Peter reading
“The poor,” discusses affairs with Satan and scolds the clergy at all costs: “Mer-
bastards, scoundrels, damned long-haired priests.”
No. 7 _ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 5t

In such difficult circumstances, priest Vavila wept bitterly and went to bed.
Father Ivan, Father Semyon had a stake in his throat - cod pie, and Father Terenty
< in grief I went to hell.

“Only the gloomy deacon Sil, Our laurels, monasteries,
Like hand and labor, they established a cadre of monks,
In the loud voice of Vavile Otopudov's fat carcasses.
Explains date the essence: They called each other “brother” there,
Without fire there is no smoke, father, there is a river of wine flowing there,
Wrap it around your mustache; And she was pure debauchery
We are Jesus' idea of Russian Faith. strong..
We trampled ourselves into the mud We are in the events of Yaroslavl
And, like brimstone, to the rich, we gained honor and glory,
We cling shamelessly every Hour... Real machine gunners
We set it up too much, we surpassed it with our eye”...

For all these things, the younger generation is putting an end to the priest’s “firm.”

It is clear to everyone that unstinting provision for “kind” words and to the address of the bourgeoisie
zkuazii, kulaks and speculators. Most of all, rural attracts attention
fist. It has no living place for which its author does not.

From a pile of poems we will create his portrait:

Appearance:

“Hair trimmed under the pot, Fingers with black claws,
Slovio apples eyes, Hawk red nose;
Varitonous stentorian voice; Boots © Burakami—
Well, just think - a thunderstorm; A real bloodsucker."
In his house, of course, there is plenty of everything:

PME.
"In the house of a rich man and everything else
Vodka, honey, bread Only enough is stored,
Krite without regret... - I What can’t you eat in six months.”

As expected, at the fist

“There is a big shop in the village, let the poor cry bitterly,
Two-story house. He will nod his head, -

And he sucks like a leech, He hides the bread far away,
All the people are around: Or they will sell it with interest.”

Many authors describe in detail how a fist buries its bread in the ground,
sells with sand at an exorbitantly high price, as the poor drag such people to the Soviets,
requisitioning their property..Kulak, complaining about his “bitter fate” and about the people
worldly injustice, belly with hope for the future, that a German will come and save
from evil misfortune. The fist is always pious:

“And, puffing with gluttony,
A bear rushes into God's temple,
Grunting loudly, 003’ embarrassment;
The mug is as red as copper.”

The speculant’s portrait is given in “softer” tones. Face, claws, belly, - quiet
you won't find words anymore.

“His appearance is agile, cunning,
'The look is mysterious, dry,

He is all quick, sharp-sighted, deceitful,
Broken by all means.”

1%
52 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 7-8.

\ 1 . \'\
Sometimes the author goes into lyricism, which happens very rarely, and then in a broad
The masses are hearing songs like the following:

“That is not an aspen leaf” And not thunder in the sky
It rustles in the grove, rumbled in the spring,

There's a potbelly stove on the coal, And a poor man on the potbelly stove
K to snake, shitzite; He gave such a speech;

“But we will only throw away power, “Don’t be angry, killer whale,
Let's live again, for better or worse.
'Then quit the people, don't be fussy,
We’ll rip off ten skins.”...Remember my tale.”...

In such “difficult” conditions the fist laments bitterly;

“At my daughter’s, at Trunya’s,
The bastards took it away

Rings, brooches and bracelets...
They mute and hit the tail and mane,
They don’t give you a break.”

THAT.

Many poems are dedicated to women in general, to women as Christians.
styanka, proletarian woman; the latter especially attracts attention. ,

The woman rocked us in the cradle on sleepless nights, taught us at school, wounds
during the war she treated, stood at the machine and plowed the fields, and now she walks under the bright red
and: And, looking at the fate of the Russian woman, the author writes;

“But there is still a corner of life left,
Where the shackles are strong and unbroken,
Look how everyone in the family now
The free woman is still suffering.”
| Prosaically proving that from the “family” the “old royal system” developed, the author
protests against marriage and ends his poems with the words:

“Give her light! Down with the shackles of marriage"

There are detailed descriptions of the life of a female worker from her birth to her age.
gils. Poor, pitiful childhood, without light, without thought and joyful days, suffocating
factory, drunken husband, hostility, abuse and beatings; hungry children, exhausted breasts,
prostitution, which “corrupted the soul in depraved pus”, dens where youth perished
love like a broken rose, and finally consumption and death.

All this deeply worries and outrages the new poet, and he, turning to “commodity”
"Rishchu-proletarian", exclaims poetically;

“Now you, like a bird, have become free! and
Now our enemy, capital, has been destroyed!

Open a new one called you to a new path,

He gave you back all your human rights...

After all, a mother, after all, a wife, after all, you are dear to us,

Go and fight your enemies...

Despite thosewarm relationship with a woman, she is portrayed as larger
part of which has little tolerance for active revolutionary struggle, which is why sometimes we meet
there are moments of threat: if a woman does not fight for the bright kingdom,
then the children will curse e6 and her ashes.

There are several ‘separate poems dedicated to the seamstress, from whose hand
“the line runs joyfully, bending half a dozen”, the water-carrier, which “tirelessly dangles

m
No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 53

all day”, to the typist, whose days flow after day, without a soul, without a thought, and,
finally, to the mother, under the old willow tree, in the shade of the branches—

“There is reel, equal to © earth.
3 her, struck by a bullet, her son lies,
Killed by a pack of gendarmes in the darkness of the night.”

Along the way, let’s note poems about love, there are less than a dozen of them. One drowns from
himself a woman with curls of black hair, he does not want sweet songs of love,
not the smell of roses - he is looking for a woman to be familiar with the thunderstorm, so that she herself can breathe
played with her. He dreams:

“I’m not an unnecessary female, I’ll find a girlfriend,
For whom there are no barriers in life;

To recapture my happiness, I’ll go with her
Into the stormy red fire of the barricades.”

Another, from “The Voice of the Proletarian,” is sad about the garden, the nightingale, the summer night and the wind.
wasted away. He wants it again; to love as before, but alas... “now we’ll have to
forget the old...

Others look at things differently. For them everything is natural and simple, without any
high considerations.

I will point out the poem “Love, It is characteristic of this time:

“Kari whispered: “I love you” - I’ll steal from my father
At night Varenka. A whole pound of flour,
- Fall in love, I’ll buy a kiss, well,
Shawl and felt boots, here you go.
On the sheepskin coat the Night noticed

I will present it on time, Yes, it’s a mess,
Just give me a start, - What did she answer?
Kiss once. ° Karpu Varenka.
For you, I’m not lying, In the morning our Kari
I don’t care about everything, I’m packing for the journey,
Even the sugar He decided from the women
I can get it. Wave forever...

The reader will probably recognize the portrait painter Ermoshka. Ermoshka and Kari—they are not
attractive to us, but they live among us and, as in the old days, poison our
new life being born.

and y:

_Returned hisprovincial attention to certain aspects of life. He's a lot
writes on the topic of education. For him, “having known is the road to freedom and bread, knowledge is
helmsman in the darkness of the night." He calls on the working masses to study.

“A friendly army for the last feat:
Let's throw off the oppression of ignorance,—

Much of the legacy of tsarism has fallen,
This one will fall in the same way.”

In their deep desire for science, the people encounter sabotage and
ill will of the intelligentsia and lives in hopes of the red capital,
which should give the province its cultural workers.

Gradually, people begin to become involved in art, theater and music.
Zeyam, finding in them consolation and joy in our difficult times.

Dedicate the worker! your poem and Proletkult. For him he is “like the bright sun”
A ray flashed from the dark clouds amidst storms and bad weather,”
54 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-8

yy TWO

The dark sides in our construction did not escape the keen eye of the poet.
body One of them ridicules the district “Sovnarkom”, where comrades, establishing
economic life, they think:

“(then thirty-two separators p
We need it quickly...
Sixteen remingtonians,
Seventeen watchmen,

There are eight recorders,
There are five secretaries...

The device is “set up”.

“But the proletarian is not a cheerful...
Overshadow the celebration
Remnants of the fallen ancient times:
Office red tape
Nepotism and matchmaking."

Finally, various chapters and centers were created. But things are not moving, and the usual -

the guy grumbles: |
"Glavkocentres, central headquarters,
And tails at every shop,
Tlavkorutan, centroshum,
Without a piece of paper Glavbum,
You can't light a cigarette with a matchstick,
Tlavtabak without tobacco,
The main cart is on its side."

But then a man, after a week of ordeals and trials, took out tobacco and
matches, lit a cigarette, took a drag and still, shaking his head melancholy, said
should grumble:

“Eh, shag, you shag, You’re littered with all sorts of rubbish

You, my makhorochka, are both nettles and dust,
I'll see if you don't pull, you won't smoke
They waved you; And you can’t smoke it,
Wet, annoyed \ You will swear and swear,
Otoeros ash, Yes, you will start again

Famous "xv"osts”, which we inherited from the Tsar’s regime\ also. before
hay on the pages of provincial life, Although one can hear witticisms in the tails
and even fiery love is born, but the poet paints them with gloomy colors
kami:

“The tail of the inhabitants, the legs are frozen,
Ever increasing, The look is embittered.
Food is coming, Here are the citizens’
* Like alms. With babies
The faces are chilled, } Hiding the children `

Looking tired, covered in blankets with shreds...

The poet denounces the “greed and fury” emerging among socialists
bourgeois. theft, abuse related to official position,
drunkenness, rudeness and the downright inhumane treatment of doctors and nurses in
government agencies and hospitals, etc. d,

U

We include lyrics in the last group of poems. It's also not original
there are no bright images or musicality in it; her motives, like political motives,

No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 55

not numerous; and yet, in relation to history, the lyrics stand in
generally higher than civil poetry.

The poet sings of winter, He admires how

"Snowflakes are falling

White fluff,

Dressing up plowing

A white blanket." r

The snowy plain will give birth to the mood in him:

Snowy plain! ‚ Out, here in the frost,

A bright silver tablecloth lies. In a cloudy blue haze,

It’s good to be free, The forest, enchanted by a winter fairy tale, sleeps;
In an endless field. And through deep sleep

Every snowflake sparkles with fire, A lonely one dreams

As if someone were diamonds, About the spring caresses of blue skies...
Pearls and topazes, There is no tsechali in the heart,

With a generous hand he scattered it all around. The distance imperiously beckons...

Winter night, motel, frost, February morning, when, “through the scarlet frost-
The sun looks out over the fields, kissing the trunks of the birch trees,” stops attention
poet.

There are significantly fewer poems dedicated to spring and autumn, and there are no poems at all
leg. Spring, bright and golden, it beckons and brings happiness. Kavalo, poetry
This mood should have prevailed, but in fact it does not. at

o
The worker-poet loves autumn, when—

"Silver ringing of leaf fall

In red, native November,

Walking in the gardenand in the garden,

Early at the scarlet dawn"...

But the poet loves autumn somehow in an intellectual and even bourgeois way. In these
elegant days of autumn: .
“He sat down even closer to the fireplace,
Threw birch firewood,
And, warming himself, he opened Lamartine's
A volume of murmuring poems."

The Cotati say that Russian workers do not have fireplaces and it is difficult to find them
Lamartine,

Wilderness, country road to the city for work, lonely, abandoned
a pine tree in a field, a cemetery, youth wasted among people - all this resonates
in the soul of a new poet, a weaver, a typesetter, a railway worker tell about their lives,
0 ev poor impressions. The railway worker sings the praises of the locomotive, the station
new lights, rails, green and red flags, etc. d.

The poet-worker often turns to the sun. He paints it as life-giving
force:\

“In the palace of Svarog Klonilei to the snowy thickets,

The path has been trodden, and the magnificent flickering lights have kindled in them,
Svarog, the son of Dazhdbog, walks along it, And the world again awaits spring miracles...
With your lazy face | And a passionate rage boils in the blood.”

And only one poet; from the newspaper “Land and Labor”, I hated the sun, but oops,
like a mole, born to live in the dark.

“I took the red sun in my hand,
Crumpled the furry into a lump,
56 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, M 7-3

Threw with regular skis
To side E

I don't like bright-eyed day,

The shadow of the night is dear to me, ^

Autumn night, stormy—
Mine.

Strange man. But, as the Russian proverb says, c. The family has its black sheep.

There are poems with allegorical content. The ship I carry
riding proudly on the stormy waves is the proletarian revolution. Morning dawn
with bright rays—the future life of the working masses. A menacing storm that breaks the hundred-
summer oaks - proletarian revolution. Sunset—life dying out. rushing
The train is moving at full speed—our life is rapidly flowing. But all this is old.

UI.

What is the conclusion from all that has been said?

The Soviet provinces did not have time to single out poets from the broad working masses,
and the collected things, with the exception of a few, do not at all speak of poetic
the talents of the authors. But this does not confuse us or plunge us into pessimism. Laborthe masses had still too little breath of free life, had still little
cultural achievements of the past. A certain period of time will pass, more
or less talented ones, with a poetic spark, will remain to work in this field
and they will say their word, and those who are accidental and incapable will fall behind on their own.
What is now important is that the working masses have created hundreds of newspapers and magazines,
move their publicists; critics, fiction writers and poets, exponents of their
thoughts and moods and direct their searching gaze into the depths of life, embracing
poking her from many sides. |

New Pushkins and Belinskys will not be born soon: but they will be born. And now
the provincial press is served by: Sofronov’s grandson from Velikie Luki, Uncle Vasya,
Uncle Sasha, soldier Yashka Copper buckle, Red Tongue, Red Sting, Ki-
wall and others. The very topics: “In the mouth of those sieve with peas,” “Don’t believe the rumors,
live by the mouth, not the ear”, “How to distinguish the bourgeois from the proletarian?” and a whole series
others, which in themselves predetermine the artistic value of the work
information

In! there is a whole range of images:

1) “And Father Terenty was out of grief 5) “And, once gasping at the pig’s snout,
“he hit the priest in the face”... Sent the fat woman to the grave.”

2) “Without a psalmist, mass, 6) “The apostle of great labor appeared—
What is a mare without? tail "... A healthy microbe of the collective."

3) “But their priests 7) “The idea that a sparrow
They fattened up their belly, kill her in Varodysh,
The butt was smooth, and the eggshells fell off—
And rounder than a watermelon."... It's a lost cause."

4) “They squeeze and hit the tail and mane,
They don't let you rest."

All these images, although quite real and truthful, have not yet conquered poetry.
zi rights of citizenship and, it must be said, will not acquire such rights. All technical
means of poetic creativity, musicality, rhythm, imagery, even
in the best examples, are taken with greater or less skill
from old poetry.

° Here is Nikitin’s speech:

“Dream near the river Watchman at the office
Peaceful village. He knocks on the little bell,
The black shacks of Premlst the whole village,

Oneg drifted, dozingand is silent."
‚ No. 7—8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 57

Others imitate Pleshcheev. Each of the readers will feel it immediately,
reading lines;
“Go ahead, forget your suffering.”
Don't give up in the face of a storm;
Fight for the distant light
Dawn flashing in the darkness of the night.”

One could cite excerpts inspired by Koltsov, Surikov,
Nokrasov and others."

A whole series of poems are crude adaptations of Pushkin’s works,
Lermontov, Nekrasov, folk songs, etc. d. Remade: “Ukrainian Night”,
“Song of the Prophetic Oleg”, “Dispute”, “Peddler”, “The Last Today”,
“Separation”, “My Fire” and some others.

Here are examples of this genre of creativity:

1) “Germany is already full - Bethmann-Hollweg with Sir Gray
There is a baron, a banker and a master... There was a heated argument.”
The heat of a popular uprising 3) “Silent Ukrainian night.
Zealously strangles Scheideman. I am Transparent the sky. The stars are shining.
A considerable amount of money was distributed, 'Hetman Tsechalen. The news is bad
So that the rebellion grows very much... Like distant flashes.
Submit your scarlet sponges, they will awaken anxiety in him.
And give Wilson a smack in the village.” The entire German region is covered
2) “Once before a gentleman, he was rising up in a violent manner.
Without taking your eyes off, advice is everywhere. The Kaiser has been captured."

Ve: Lhelm sings sadly:

"The last day today
I'm walking with you. me, friends.

And tomorrow, early, just a little light,
They will sweep me off the throne, you know.”

Emperor Charles is more frivolous. He sings carefreely:

"Three villages, two villages,

Seven nations, one I.

The Czechs on the right press `
The Hungarians are approaching from the left,

The Swabians are also galloping,

Let me go from the throne - clap."

One of the authors characterizes himself with the words:

“I am stronger than everyone - I am a giant,
the worst of all - I'm a hurricane,

I am the deepest - I am the ocean,

I'm the most formidable - I'm a volcano...

I am not powerful in the world,

I am a torch of life, I am a poet."

Of course, these words sound proud; but at the moment to provincial poets
they are not applicable there. And in the future, the role of the poet, especially each individual,
will be much more modest.

Now we have to work and work,

And Proletkult to fulfill its andhistorical role, taking into account all the pre-
achievements and failures, must unfold in his literary studios a colossal
new work to give the opportunity to everything new and talented to blossom
a bright flower and thereby lay a solid foundation for proletarian literature.

Valeryan Polyansky.

58

/

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

Priests of art.

Need and grief are our manger,
The basement darkness is a cradle,
Where the dawns of adolescence faded

And the pipe pipe sang. .

Sirens loud from factories
It's early for us, they showed us the way
Under the shadow of terribly rattling vaults,
Where the chest breathes intensely. ‹

And in an inseparable, united choir,
In the dimensional run of gears ^
We have solved the miracle dawns,
The radiance of sunny times.
And the day of the bloody uprising,
The threat of great riots,
Like a maiden in bridal attire
We waited in the dark of the night.
And the hour has come, and a thunderstorm
The slave shackles were broken,
And the sun showed a new shine,
And my soul was filled with delight. .

The iridescent distances have opened up,
Zardeleya is a bright sky,

And our songs sounded

In the crimson rustle of the banner...

In the covers of a blue-woven blouse,
In the glow of the dawn flowers
The stern appearance of our muse
You were incomprehensible and wild.

Because the fiery strings
Confused by the babble of the tearful lyres,
You gave us the name: “Huns,
Those who came to destroy the world."

Yes, we are disgusted by the sound of unnecessary ones,
Pearl-beaded verses,

Patterns of sick fictions.
And the ghosts of grave dreams,

And kamdi, hardened in storms,
Born for great battles
Listen to the lightly ringing tunes
Otihiram sweet prayers?

Night owls, cuckoos,

You are not the chosen ones of the gods,

He is with us, radiant Pushkin,

And Lomonosov and Koltsov.
Singers of labor, singers of the machine,
And standard bearers and fighters
United working family

* Preparing star crowns.

`

No. 7-8
No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 509

We are the message of transformation to the world,
We are a wildly joyful new
And, glorifying death and destruction,
We sing Universal Love,

Born of immortal power,

We won't die, we won't die,

And through the coffin and the darkness of the grave

We will come to the Gates of the Future. a

Vladimir Kirillov.

Avchatori. |

Ever since the worker Vedrine became a pilot, he has been in a turning moodth master
A revolution took place at Gioma. Many turners secretly looked at themselves,
like natural-born aviators.

- Our brother, the turner, is used to handling mechanisms, operating machines,
“our hands do not deceive,” the brave men said, and it seemed that Vedrin’s successes
confirmed this practical theory.

From the day Vedrine arrived. for advertising the Newport monoplane to Gno-
Movo plant, his old neighbor at the machine, Jean, nicknamed for his green
tail and wide nose "Lyatvoy", lost sleep, appetite, and his former cheerfulness and
sociability, to the great surprise of the factory wits, disappeared,

“What’s wrong with Lyatva?” they asked each other. They even thought that his wife
made her “mouthful,” and they went to “sympathize.” “Listen, Jean, don’t be upset,
this happens to everyone these days...— began one of the roguish diplomats, but even
Lyatva did not take this bait. Otoit, rest on the long arms of your revolver
faithful machine, and watches how the shavings curl, continuously wetted with fine
a trickle of yellow oil. He moves the cutter away, silently, sharpens it and, as if without hearing,
malicious questions and ridicule from the neighbors, he will again put it on the light support, drill
Yes, drills small holes in the injectors.

Lyagva's thoughts were far from this workshop, which suddenly disgusted him. Okie
carried him into the distant blue of heaven, where it was so drawn and what he, Lyatva, did not know about -
He even tried to talk with his friend, neighbor Pierre.

Pictures of his glory and honors were already drawn before him... He already saw himself
hero of France, whose portraits are replete with the largest pages. tazet.
Here he hovers high, high, mountains, forests, green plains flash before him...
He hears the applause of the crowd, dinners, speeches...

“I would buy this pavilion and never return to these hated machines,
to these stuffy, dimly lit sheds and workshops,” Lyagva dreamed. ,

the slight “trp” of a broken drill quickly. lowers the Vow to the cold ground.

“You see, you can’t even think,” he said to his invisible listener.
tellers, we need to go swear again ininstrumental... They will say why but
I see I’m already breaking the third one today.”

“Hey, Pierre, I broke it again,” shouted Lyatva, smiling hopelessly,

“Why aren’t you looking,” the neighbor responded calmly, “take what’s mine, from me.”
“It’s just one thing, but I’ll replace yours for you,” Pierre added.

Bribed by such a favor, Lyatva felt the need to share
with a friend with your hidden dreams.

“Eh, I’m tired of this mill,” he said, pointing to his
machine.—Jules (Vedrine) is lucky, now he has money and no longer needs
run on factory call.

“You need money, my friend, to get out.” “I already thought,” Pierre realized.

+ “We don’t need money,” Jean declared with a flash of joy in his eyes. —
All you need is desire and energy. That's what I think - come here and look,
so that the masters are not seen, I will tell you one little thing.
bo ° ` PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-8

Both friends bent their heads over the toolboxes, doing
the look that the incisors are looking for.

- You’re angry, Pierre, that in Paris there is a “League of Aviators”, which
is engaged in the dissemination of aviation knowledge and has a military president
minister, deputy of our district? Well, I’ve already been in this League. and there for me
they said that if a lot of us gather, they can open a department for us in our
city. They will help us dress the “flying enchamber” “glider”. They will give instructors,
and we will arrange flights, and then we will pass the exam at the pilot school. Only
we need more people. 2%

“Twenty-two,” the usual mumble of Parisian workshops could be heard clearly.
skikh, warning of danger.

From behind the large decolletage machines the corpulent figure of a lathe appeared
master "Kiki", a stutterer, so nicknamed because he began every phrase with "kiki".
The friends exchanged cutters and, assuming a businesslike appearance, started up the machines.

Oooh—the big monsters howled the peeling machines, holding the patrol in their teeth.
nah round pieces of steel, which were tormented by huge American drills. Complaining
the cast-iron pistons, heated by a pair of automatic machines, cried. From the yard
informthe buzz of test engines circling in the clouds
smoke.

Lyatva’s thoughts deeply affected Pierre. He had long dreamed of what
you can “get rich” this way. I was thinking about getting a little shop or with someone...
Somewhere to open a tavern, but the accumulated several hundred are far away. not
enough to start your own business. Always work for others - this
the thought was killing him. Here is aviation, this is the only possible path for him,
fortunately. A whole series of names of simple mechanics like him came to his mind,
who profited from this business.

Kotda “Kiki” walked around the rows of grinding machines and, having calmed down that everything
in their places, entered his booth, Lyatva and Pierre had already lowered their heads again
to the instrumental itkaf and continued the interrupted conversation.

- That's it, Jean, we'll arrange a subscription list of those wishing to be members of this society.
stva and submit it to the League. I will help you, but you only need permission from the “monkey” *)
in order to broadcast the recording around the workshop.

The next morning, Lyatva decided, before going to the director for permission,
skip registration as a member of the new Society at the plant, talk to the manager
`Balo, who was considered a “good guy” and tried to be friendly with everyone.
During the morning round of the workshop, Lyatva detained Balo, asking for his assistance.
‹tvii in the organization of the future Society, aeronautics in Argenteuil.
The manager really appreciated the workers who were engaged in serious, in his opinion,
deeds, not politics or philosophy, and promised his assistance.

At lunch, Lyagva prepared a subscription list for “volunteer balloonists.”
In the evening, when the “monkey” walked into the office, Lyatva wiped his oils with a rag.
hands and walked in the same direction, rattling his wooden galoshes.

As soon as Lyatva opened the office door, the manager introduced him to the director,
as well as a good deed.

- I approve and congratulate you. I gladly sign for you 10” francs, solemnly
The director said directly, returning the subscription sheet to Lyagva.

The news of Frog’s 06 discoveries of the new Society spread throughout the workshop. Jester-
nicknames decidedalready “use” and, when they found out that there is no need to pay anything yet,
crowds came to sign up. In a few hours, Lyagva already had about 200 members.
new in your pocket - this was more than enough to open the air compartment
spirit swimmers in Argenteuil...

The mayor's office **) of the little town of Argenteuil was decorated with tricolor
flags, fences and pillars were covered with patriotic-colored posters, informing

*) The French “workers” call “monkey” the owners, directors, etc. of the factory
‘administration.
**) City government building.
No. 7-8 ‚ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. } bt

residents about the upcoming grand opening of the “Society of Voluntary
balloonists."

There was a festive mood in the city. Local amateur or-
Kester was preparing to meet the Parisian guests and had already been exercising since six o’clock in the morning
in the next tavern.

The vast hall of the City Hall is filled with festive puolica. Frog and Pierre,
those bustling around in the hall were a little embarrassed by the absence of hundreds of active
members of the new society. Only honorary members were among the guests, and out of two hundred
There were barely half a dozen active ones. But this did not bother them for long. “Too much not
“They’ll ruin it,” they decided and prepared for the celebration.

When the city's mor took the chairman's seat, the music began to play "Marseillaise"..
A local engine manufacturer, a district deputy and delegations took their places on the podium
from gymnastic societies. \

- Ladies and gentlemen, we are present at a great human conquest
the shadow of the great air spaces,” the measure solemnly began. Further through
“Glory to France”, “Alsace-Lorraine” were written, and he died with a wish
success and prosperity to the Society of Voluntary Aeronauts of Tododa Ar-
`genteuil', and long live the Republic!

The music began to play the Sambre et Meuse march, and to the sounds of it the Parisian delegate Liti
aviators solemnly presented Lyatva with the blue banner of the Society.

This was the signal for the street procession. The musicians placed themselves behind the banner,
and the crowd of water moved towards the exit. After long and tiring treks along
streets and aboutstrong spraying, the participants of the great celebration finally dis-
walked, $
The morning of work Monday was a difficult day for Lyagva. Willingly
He would have lain up to his neck in bed, but for fear of compromising “his business.”
in the eyes of the factory administration,

With treacherously swollen eyes from excessive drinking and little sleep, he appeared
to the Pierre plant, also out of fear of the administration for the success of the business and so that
escape your wife's complaints.

“Oh, how it’s blown your eyes,” they greeted him with feigned seriousness
jokers. “You need to wear glasses,” others advised.

“When will we fly?” the neighbors asked the arriving Lyagva. But he says

chad:
The first meeting of the Society was dedicated to the beating of officials,
A deputy and a factory worker were elected honorary chairmen, Lyagva—secretary
three, and Pierre the cashier, they decided to start building their own
glider

It took two weeks to design and build with our own funds.
the glider is three meters wide and four meters long. ;

On the next holiday, the official test took place - the flight
on a glider from one of the nearby mountains. Flying from the mountain was not attractive, Frog, and op
proposed to test flight using a car: tie the glider with a rope
to the car, put it in third speed, about sixty kilometers and, when
the glider will rise, lower the rope and fly,” he explained. I liked the idea
everyone, but... test, they laid her down on Lyatva.

The solemn day of the flight has arrived. With the first rays of the sun, Lyatva is already
I was near the glider, tightened connections, tried the steering wheel, sat down and maneuvered. Pierre
looked around the wide embankment reserved for today's test. For
the runway was a space about a kilometer long, along one side of which there was
boulevard, and the other bordered the quiet Seine, shining in the sun.

The midday sun sparkled joyfully in the still puddles and played
shimmering on the golden crosses of the small church, The tower clock struck two,
and their ringing rolled for a long time through the mountain gorges surrounding the city. ‚

Glider b standing in the middle of the squarewas surrounded by a close ring of lovers
EXPERIENCED,

“You’re lucky, Jean, look how quiet it is, even the leaves aren’t swaying,”
Pierre said with hidden envy.
|

ba PROLETARIAN CULTURE. at No. 7-8

The expected car arrived. They tied a long rope to the springs,
the end of which Lyatva caught on the Idaner. Having examined all the fasteners again, he carefully
He sat down excitedly, put the steering wheel in the up position; the crowd parted. “Rog,” he commanded.
Pierre, and the car, pulling on the rope, quickly dragged him along the rolled-up road
noah, Having moved hundreds of two meters, the glider quickly rose, as if caught
blown by the wind, the rope fell and, making a half-turn to the left, quickly slid into the middle
Seine. And in an instant the aviator and glider disappeared among the sheaves of spray...;

The cheers of the public froze: In the middle of the wet Seine, frog floundered,
calling for help. A few minutes later the pilot was brought to the beret; not-
much later, the floating vessel also moored there.

“On his first baptism,” his friends congratulated him. To this Lyagva proudly responded.
til: .
- But still I flew! :

A. Shlyapnikov.

`Ruler charter of the Proletkult club.

T. Club goals.

The workers' club unites all the creative work of its members in developing
proletarian culture, promotes social, communist ‘and intellectual
development of its members, while serving for them at the same time as a place of relaxation
news, .

I. Club activities.

All activities of the club are based on the friendly work of its members according to
to the princes of the All-Russian Proletkult Conference.

The club organizes: a) courses and seminaries for the study of various fields
science and individual scientific issues; 0) studios: literary, choral, music
cal, dramatic, fine arts, scientific and others; c) spec-
takli, concerts, with a mixed program of evenings, lectures, conversations with a review of co-
activities for a week, excursions, etc.; d) library-reading room, with display case 06000
valuable books, reading programs on certain issues, newspaper clippings on
issues of cultural, political and economic life of the proletariat,
ranks higherexisting books and magazines, etc.; e) information desk on couples issues
industrial, cultural-educational, professional-productive and cooperative
operational with a schedule of all work of club institutions; e) gymnastic
physical education hall; g) buffet and dining room.

Sh. The composition of the club, the rights and obligations of its members.

1) Members of the club can be workers of both sexes who have reached 16 years of age,
members of workers' organizations and recommended by two members of the club or
relevant organizations, carefully paying the membership fee. *

Note: Non-working people can be members of the club only if
if they are active workers among the working class and closely
associated with the latter, by decision of the board.

2) Members of the club, to one degree or another, must take an active part in
creativity in the creative work of the club. |

3) The amount of the membership fee is established by the general meeting of members.
depth ‘

m 4) The withdrawal of members from the club is made: a) in the case of their written
© volume of the statement; b) if they commit any anti-social
actions and actions that run counter to the general direction of the club; c) in service
failure to pay the next membership fee within the established period.
| .
No. 7-8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 63

5) The issue of expulsion of members is decided by the club meeting by a majority of the entire
owls in 2/3. The board is given the right to terminate access to the club like
members, until the resolution of the general meeting, at which the said members
are invited for explanations. at

Note 1. Family members of club workers who have not reached
^16 years of age are allowed into the club only with the consent of the board.
s |

Note 2. Guests are allowed only on open evenings, con-
Perth, etc. p: .

GU. Funds kpuba.

Club funds are made up of: a) membership fees and workers’ contributions
organizations participating in the club; 0) fees charged to guests; c) income from
organized lectures, concerts, performances, evenings, as well as d) from loans, semi-
expected from the local Proletkult,

Notese. Club funds in excess of those required for current work
amounts are kept in the credit institution and issued under the chairman's signature
tel and secretary.

U. Business management.

1) Management {of affairs belongs to: a) the general meeting and 6) the board.

2) The general meeting of club members has the right to decide all principles”
fundamental and organizational issues arising in the activities of the club,
‘selection of members of the board, audit commission and candidates for them, development
instructions for section boards, exclusion of club members. General meeting
approves semi-annual reports of the club’s board in ideological terms and organizational
nizational-financial. These reports are sent to the local Proletkult for accounting
all cultural and educational work.

3) General meetings of the club are regular and extraordinary. Meeting
It is legal if there are % of the number of club members.

However, due to the failure of the required number of members to arrive, the general meeting will not take place,
then in the near future (at least three days) a general meeting will be convened for the second time.
tion, which is considered legal for any number of people gathered

The order of the day of the secondary general meeting includes only those issues that
which were listed on the agenda of the failed general meeting.

4) Regular general meetings are convened every 3 months.

5) Extraordinary general meetings are convened: a) by resolution of the board
Cuba, 0) at the request of the audit commission, c) upon a written application to the government

‚ membership of at least 1/1 of the number of club members and d) at the proposal of the local Proletkult.

6) The board of the club for a period of 6 months is composed of: a) representatives
cultural and educational cells of factory enterprises, located
locals in the club area and directly interested in the development of its work;
6) persons elected by the general meeting of club members, p c) representatives of the local
Proletkult, and where it is impossible to carry out this 'representation, the right
The leader is elected from the members of the club meeting.

Note: Number of board members elected. general meeting,
definedappears last.

7) The board elects a presidium from among itself: chairman, secretary
and treasurer, . :

8) Meetings of the board take place at least once a week in the premises
of the club.

9) The Board organizes the work in accordance with Section 1. _

10) To manage the entire economy there is a depth and this is the governing board
organizes economic, financial and other commissions.
64 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-8

11) The responsibilities of the board include maintaining the books of the club, convening
fights and communications on club business with everyone, individuals and institutions.

Note. The board establishes mandatory duty of members
board during the opening hours of the club.

12) The board decides all issues by a simple majority of votes. Meetings
boards are valid if there are % of the number of board members,

13) To close a club, the sanction of the local Proletkult is required, which
Roma has control over the entire work of the club in all parts. \

UT. Reporting and control.

1) The board is required to maintain a cash book, inventory, income and receipts
new, membership book, membership fee book, application book and guest records
and others

The remaining books are kept according to the resolution of the board.

2) For control, the General Meeting elects the Audit Commission for 6 years -
Sltsev, including three members and three candidates for them,

Sections,

1) The section board is in charge of the organization of all affairs in its area, organiza-
organizes studios, clubs, directs and manages their work, takes care of delivery
everything necessary for the proper flow of their work.

2) The section board consists of: a) representatives of the club board, 6)
directors of the studio, circles (one from the studio or a circle, if there are few of them)
and c) representatives of instructors and teachers.

. Club studios,
1, The purpose of the studio.

|;

The studio aims to provide club members and members of their families with
When we turn 16 years of age, we have the opportunity to work in the field of construction
Tara culture: a) study the culture that was inherited by the proletariat
different from previous generationsny; 0) carry out all sorts of experiments in the field of creativity
new culture by searching for methods that correspond to the new content.
To ‘perform the specified task, the studios, each working separately in
their special field, join together to study general subjects
for all studios, without knowledge of which work in the field cannot be productive
building a new culture (see Appendix No. 1).

PP. Studio board.

The studio's board consists of; a) representatives of the relevant sector,
C) a representative of the studio students (studio head) and c) representatives of the instructions
studio teachers. ‘

1) The studio board monitors the correctness of the studio’s activities and communicates with
the board of the section and the club, establishes, together with members of the studio, internal
schedule, is in charge of accepting new members, keeps records, fills out questionnaires
sheets, weekly statements, etc. clause 5

2) Studio members can be club members and members of their families who have not reached
16 years of age.

3) Admission of members is carried out on the following grounds: a) those wishing to
to enter the studio, fill out a special questionnaire (see Appendix No. 3); 6) right
The studio administration puts candidates on special lists; c) these lists are sent
to the testing commission, which announces the day of the competition; d) survived
No. 7—5 PROLETARIAN ULTURE. 65

competition to become members of the studio; e) before the competition, club members who wish
study in the studio, can attend classes as volunteers.

4) Competitive admission to all studios is carried out at a certain time, infection
‘new announced by the board of the club, which elects the testing commission
according to the agreement © the relevant sections.

5) The competition consists of applicants reading a poem, fable OR
in performing certain stage tasks, performing musical and vocal
a passage, demonstration of one’s own work (literature, painting,
culture, etc.).

6) When compiling lists of those accepted, monitor compliance with the regulations
entrusted to the section board.

Listand compiled according to the questionnaire (see Appendix No. 3).

7) All studio students are divided according to the degree of their preparedness into a and
younger group

The most talented studio students of the senior gruni stand out in the central
local Proletkult studios.

8) The number of members of each studio is established by the section board.

9) Training in the studios is free.

t. Responsibilities of those working in the studios of the Proletkult club.

1) All studio members are obliged to comply with the resolutions of the Proletkult club,
sections and internal regulations established by each studio itself
carefully tailored to local conditions and approved by the board of the sector
tions.

° 2) All studio members are required to: a) attend all studio classes, re-
petitions, 0) maintain discipline and order.

Note 1. In case of absence, it is necessary each time 060606
notice stating reasons.

Note 2. Absentees are entered into the class minutes with the indication
understanding the reasons for their absence.

Note 3. Three withdrawals without prior notification
tion entails expulsion from the studio, and those who miss classes may be
accepted appeal only by resolution of the general meeting of the studio;

Note 4. Repeated delays will result in exclusion from the 060th
from among the members of the studio by resolution of the general meeting of the studio.

3) All studio members who violate the charter and internal rules,
as interfering with fruitful work, are excluded from the studio by a general meeting
studios.

Note. The expelled person has the right to appeal to the club management
or a general meeting of club members.

4) To record classes and attendance at the studio, a weekly statement is kept
submitted to the section board (see Appendix, No. 2).

Mugs.

1) Circles are organized: a) for persons who, for one reason or another,
but can work seriously in the studio, and 6) for persons for ‘the purpose of serious study in the field’
authority, whose specialty could not attract more members.

2) Attendance at a course of lectures common to all studios is also mandatory for members
new circlesThe Charter was approved by the Second Congress of the Council 08.
Letkult at a meeting on May 4, 1919.

-

66 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. L 7-5
Application No. 1

Mandatory course of lectures for all students of the club.

1. The origin of the world, the emergence of life, the development of plants, life
nykh and man.

2. Political economy in connection with cultural history,

3. History of socialism,

4. Labor movement (political, professional, cooperative, pro-
letcultovekoe).

5. The Constitution of the Soviet Republic in connection with the world socialist
revolution.

6. History and program of the Russian Communist Party.

7. History of literature (Russian and Western European; characteristics of eras
and currents).

5. History of art (painting, sculpture, theater and music; nature of art
etsoh and currents).

All lectures are given from the point of view of proletarian culture in the spirit of revolutionary
peony Marxism.

Appendix No. 3

Student Questionnaire.

1. Last name
2. First and patronymic
3. Age
4. Origin (occupation of parents)
5. What school did you graduate from?
6. Profession
7. The genus of vanity before the revolution
$. What work is he currently doing?
9. Company address
10, What professional union are you in (membership book number)
11. When free from work
19. What does he want to do?
15. Attitude towards military service
14. Family creep (married, single, have children),
15. Are you a member of a party (which party, membership book number)
16. Time to enter the studio / |
17. Address
Studio instructor
Headman
Appendix No. 4

Questionnaire for instructor-teacher ‘studio.

1, Last name, first name and patronymic
Age

I'm Profession

1. What kind of education does he have?

5. What kind of work have you done before?

„What work is he currently doing?

7. What subject does he want to teach?

3. Clo recommends

9. Is he a member of the profession? union (what)

10. Are you involved in work organizations (which ones, for how long)
11. Attitude towards military service
12. Address Come up,

5

I *(eeeeHa voofelo ^
and yyy 'ichonimyup 8) vobkya emnotsavai and shitsyazo
# vnoinozoMadi chach9 eizhkoy Igomen ninoezoi op chzoozhoshech:eintemia

| |
| | ‘8100949
her her VH Ne E Va
| | | | | -vaivani
s | "chChechaer,
b a No. t at BEDE, Eta Ba ZAIR ‚: r. This.
= >: *vg94:)
E.] NOT you: Pius
= | | | `nin@o: 9
An Ye her
= | | | ‘nakaianop
May 5 aa to her >
A | ] | echnaozanoya
i 1 |
[5 ь | ; |
|< 2nd | ® | -vinoshooopen z | a
= ihepod ‘yeShaen | `vno4A ykodya ov | eniviyop and | hee. Pe AI | uz deveuotsoi nid V
o minyi@n ‘goo4n hish | -obazokAetsai | inzvono yivien | ini a
5 8 { $ } vicine - RE ?
-och eishmineoch | nivooephys gene | -chAalozAlo | window | vkea4 | vkoba itsineff yin leniza| :
I am Gainuszian | fetters | |
gya oso imo izieletiAmo heoa osheiv eetos-- iMIKao (ebolnAbloni) oletoAueaee vicinef and 09199.10 ‘NI
Ra. t: a aa ITU = he o rya dick baby = zonek ogochr“ > OTHER
(: CHE
©
a `` HIGH.) ‘fatherANaoko@N ъoAkya viiloo
=

$burn no.]

us

91200139 BUNCHIZIZNAZHZ
68

PROLETARIAN VULTURE.

No.

Chronicle of Proletkult.

In the provinces

When you look through provincial ha-
threads with reports on local club life,
one phenomenon involuntarily catches the eye,
which cannot but be considered titanic. Here
in Orsha, comrades in the Workers' House named after Mar-
ksa, on the eve of Christmas, we barely got in
inside it, and in front of their amazed eyes
The paintings passed by, one after the other, stranger
the workers' house was turned not only into a tavern,
but also into something worse, In Yaroslavl instead
club turned out to be a tavern; the same thing
and in the Petrovsky Club; he was given the name Comrade
Penina, and he must have such light and
lofty goals, such as bringing workers closer together,
awakening in them interest and love for art
school, and there they organize something like unions
free love and lies. Instead of 'reasonable
work, dances are given (in Tikhvin and
proactively report that due to the siege
different position, its beginning will be in another
place), and to dance more, plays
deliberately contracted so that they are not recognized
eat. They are resurrected at the People's Soviet Theater
old public masquerade balls, with pre-
miami for costumes and dancing (warrant for galoshes
and money for them), and in the Soviet one. press
there is a debate going on, right?and happened when
judgment of premiums or not. In Nozlov the pref-
national unions organize balls with luxurious
nom' buffet. Dancing; the dancing is so colorful

reports, what does it have to do with Chembary, in the club Volodar-_

Sky, on this basis a peculiar thing occurs
competition between local dancers and
visiting St. Petersburg residents from procurement
food detachments, since only the latter can
dance everywhere the invented dance “Kara-
pet, my Karanet.”

These pictures could be extended to infinity.
limbs - they are typical, and the reasons for them
we need to figure it out. Here in freed from
White: Izhevsk ‘a club is being created now, and
its tasks are defined as follows: “Dozuni is real
main point: work, discipline, order
and strict systematic organization. For
the same thing, so that among us there is no disagreement
this and friction, but there was a single will, a single
desire, we need as often as possible, every
exchange opinions daily but on all questions
himself, put forward by life on the agenda...
Our clubs (namely, they are meeting places)
must be the engines of the revolutionary
thoughts." And such ‘views are constantly
are repeated at the beginning of the club construction -
stva, the Club in Bogoroditsk is considered a party-
school, and the workers’ university student club
university in Kuznetsk there should be a laboratory
theory of independent work of student circles
dentov: In Serdobsk, a Red Army soldier complains,
that when the club opened they promised to give a lot,
but it turned out “that the club is a genuine fake
life, but only from the other side; red-
the army men thirst for enlightenment and, in the hopelessness
reliability to get him, roam the streets
the cities are like crazy.” In Balashov ‘workers
tend to the club, but groups of fellow workers

sneezes crowd at the doors of the empty hall, not daring
enter there, because there are intellectuals and bosses there
quality And it turns out that often in the workers' club
there are no workers. They are more near the window
shechka or at the door they will stand, they will stand in the distance
will leave. “In Vitebsk, workers and Red Army soldiers
complain that the young ladies don’t want to dance with them
tsat;—it turns out this kind of class struggle—
ba." Yes, that's how it is. Because the trouble is how
write andfrom Vitebsk, that the club was infiltrated by a small
which bourgeoisie brought it on its boots
and your shoes with your philistine dirt... And thus
It’s sadder that they usually show off at clubs
promising signs. Here in this hall-
the cooling of working cultural construction.
philistine and lies the reason for all the non-
luck and that everyday phenomenon, from the description of
whom we began our chronicle. From here still
the need for self-
wealth and class purity of the composition
workers' clubs. Only then is it possible to
children and the organized impact of the flight -
riata pa ugly phenomenon what happened
z Balashyuove, where after these revelations there was
the structure of the club has been changed, Otherwise, under the flag
The volume of the working nlub will be collected everywhere
intelligentsia, which we constantly talk about
tea complaints, Here in this class composition
clubists, in your opinion, and the reason
club failures, $

Let's return, however, to club life. In it
we notice the struggle between two forces, in which
of which the old and new worlds are fighting. In the same
Vitebsk, despite the dancers, succeeds, and quite
successfully, organize newspaper days with a review
events for the week, Interesting survey
was produced in Rzhev relatively un-
good luck with your laziness. There, at the Lyutov factory,
after a series of lectures, the workers demanded
factory termination committee
them; the committee insisted on their continuation ‚ then
workers stopped visiting them. This is explained
the fact that in this factory there were 25% blacks"
winding On the unsuccessful composition of lecturers, on
their inability to present popular subjects
They also complain in Velizh. In the local university
Auntie has another problem: the street is crowded into the lecture,
and during lectures. even gets settled
flying mail. Finally, often called but
matches what is given. It is necessary to
prepare the student for listening to lectures,
you need to show how and what to do, and already
then make broad plans. Therefore, in Sa-
Ratov and Vyatka start correctly with fasting"
new series of conversations, comprehensively covering the tasks
proletarian Culture, what does the question of milk
wives to take in konkrezhnayasituation, but not
abstractly, Moscow Proletarian University
the city began its activities, but now it
students, under the leadership of members of ve |
Com, Ros.Comm. Parties are mobilizing
locally, as it was necessary to carry out
rule of active student participation in
building a new life.

Let's move on to studio work. The studio is determined
usually divided like this: “The studio should’ be _
creative team, where the leader
No. 7-5

must be an equal comrade, but with
great technical knowledge, which
he ‘gives away the studios’.” Most studios
theatrical; two lines are outlined in them.
One is painstaking study, copying
reshaping the shape of old theater theaters
schools, ‘and the other strives as quickly as possible
make all the work of the studio public
property, hence the desire to give spec-
hackley. Ivanovo-Voznesensk residents consider another
task of complete reorganization of the theater with the aim
destruction of the viewer's passivity and broad
whom the use of amateurism. In Tver
The elements of the new theater are seen in the following:
joy, cheerfulness, knowledge and creativity.
There they dream that it’s time to put the co-
no conciliation in the theatrical business,
Tver needs its own theatrical October.
Theater is a barometer of art, so it’s understandable
tsoiski in creating a new repertoire, In Syz-
Rani tried to stage the play "Martyrs
communes,” but judging by newspaper reviews, she
oteriela collapse: selection of rally frails,
false enthusiasm, unfortunate shooting scene
zhommunars, - the real appearance of the great
such proud fighters who died with the light
hope for the final triumph of commu-
Nizma, it didn’t work out. From here it is clear
torture to resort to competition (the play must
be close and understandable to the masses, must be
tell socialism and brotherhood of peoples),
We consider trips to the front very valuable
“0 with his plays,—trips that go-
adopted the Petrograd and Saratov Pro-
letcults and proposes to undertake
<kovsky. Tula bye Nya po-
along the Kursk road. More
publicity all over the worldwe would say at work.
We find few instructions in music

hard work. Let us note the musical
Denmark Tambov Proletkult, releasing-
his collection of proletarian songs. Latest

‘have a touch of church character. In the present
A new collection has been in preparation for a while, it’s already clean
revolutionary proletarian. In Balashov from
an “impathetic” phenomenon is tossed around: at the concert
tah the applause is canceled and the mood
friendly, and completely tiiiiit. This
This does not prevent the capitals from following the example.

For a number of reasons (lack of premises,
fuel, etc.), the Smolensk studio collapsed
visual arts Tverskoy Prolet-
Nulth announced a competition for an emblem (it should
screen to express: initiative, creativity, strength,
understanding the ideas facing the proletariat
as the ruling class). How is it
It’s strange, but still not a single Iroletkult
with their collective creativity did not develop
there is still no banner, no emblem, no stamp.
In general, fine art somehow
it is not possible to reveal the soul of our revolution, -
always comes out with a futuristic grimace.

We learn interesting data about Saratov-
Russian Literary Studio, at the forefront
which is based on self-criticism and editorial
tea work.

Art. Krivtsov,

PROLEGARIAN CULTURE.

69
proletcults.

Petrograde provincial. In the province:
Kolpinsky.
m

y. Moscow city-
Sky. In her Klinsky, Dmitrovsky,
Ramensky, Losinoostrovsky, Ch iy,

Malakhovsky, Shcholkovsky, Serg ‚ Sta.
Rogorkinsky] And,
Gay guy. In the lip. Moon.
Kansky, Kire: Anovsky, Borieoglebakii.
Tula gube] governor * left-

sky, Odoevsky, VE, Epifansky,
Novosilsky, Efremovsky, Kashirovsky,
Aleksinsky, 'Venevsky, Thieves,

Tverekoy lip n. W; Ostash-
Novo- "Torzhekiy, Vyshie-Volotsiy,

J city, V’ governor-
research; Novo-Galchishsky.

}Aratoveviy provincial. In the province: Khva-
Lynsky, Kuznetsky, Volsky, Balashovsky,
Turkovsky, Bordobsky, Alexandrovsky,
Namyshinsky, Petrovsky.

Samarik korodekoy.

Penza province;, In the province: (©
Ransky

Smoleneky town. In the province: Vyazem-
skii, Yukhnovsky, Sochevsky. —

kovsky,
Rzhevsky.

a-

Eka y city,

Niko OH [YAZronNnoy ru:
Bernia),

Odessa city,

Yaros Yt Rybin:

en Molotekiy, ah, They,

Kazan city.

Kostroma province: Kologrivoky,

Parfonyevsky, Kineshma.

Ryazan city.

Kursk city.

Nizhny Novgorod ev;

Astrakhan city: In the governor: Ni-
Kolaevsky, Tsarevsky.
Mogilev city, ‹
bi y. In the province: Sengi-
Leevsky, Syzransky.

Vitobeky city. In the province: Polots:

cue,
y. To the governor

mu.
sky,

Oryol town. In the province: Eleikiy,
Pipensky, Sevsky, Bozhutsky,

Poltava Torodekoy. In the province: Kremen-
Chugsky,

Kyiv town.

Around Proletkults by the month of May there will be
united ° about 800 professional
unions,

eternal city;Mglin-

‘Proletkult Magazines.

"Proletarian Culture". Organ of the All-Russian

Russian Proletkult Council.
. "Rearly". Organ of the Petrograd Pro-

letkult.

"Gorn".
cult.

"Beeps." Publishing Literary Studio
Moscow Proletkult.

"The Coming Culture". Tambovsky organ
Proletkult.

"Glow of Factories". Organ of the Samara district
tray

Orgai of the Moscow Prolet-
70 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

"World and Man". Organ of the Kolpinsky Pro-
letkult.
"Bulletin of Proletarian Culture". Organ
Tver Proletkult.
"Life of the Arts". Edition by Kologrivsky
Palace of Proletarian Culture. °
"Our Forn." Organ of Bezhitsky Prolet-
cult, Oryol province.
“Red Morning”, Ortan Orlovsky Pro-
letkulta,
"Proletarian Culture". Odessa authority
of the Proletkult.
"Creativity of Labor". Organ of Nikolaevsky
Proletkulta, .
"Proletarian Creativity". Organ Pkate-
Rhinoslav Proletkult.
` _ “Labor and Creativity.” Smolensky organ
Proletkulta,

Instructor courses Moscow-
of the Proletkult.

Construction of proletarian culture on
begins to get bigger and bigger

size. The idea is becoming more and more popular.

noy among the broad masses of the proletariat and even in
layers of the population only closely adjacent
to the proletariat. Particularly attractivecomrades
a real opportunity to work creatively
thief without oppressing all kinds of persons,
engaged in the “construction” of an alien
proletarian life. But it's spontaneous
the movement has its drawbacks and dangers.
ness,

Bolshevism, starting with Comrade. N., Lenina,
always pointed out that one element is far away
you won't leave, at best you'll get to
flat economism of the English trade unions
new, and that awareness needs to be brought
into every spontaneous movement, This consciousness
efficiency comes from critical processing of steel
swarm of bourgeois science, and an example of such
proletarian degeneration of science
Can serve as "Capital" by K. Marx and. far-
the greatest works of his students. Firstfruits of Job
were laid down a long time ago, and our movement
strives to summarize these achievements
past and, based on them, outline paths
upcoming work. |

It is in this respect that the extraordinary shi-
rina of a new movement, cultural-enlightenment
body, cannot, of course, not be reflected
on his depth and clear consciousness. Not
secret that’ many comrades are now zealously
performing under the banner of Proletkult,
carry theoretical ambiguity than just
hinder the development of movement, rather than help
to him. Before starting cultural-creative
work, each employee must pro-
think about the basics of this movement, even more
moreover, to deeply feel, perhaps,
even suffer him. Speaking under our
red banner, every employee is obliged
understands our questions clearly. Only
with sufficient clarity and distinctness in the
attention to tasks among movement leaders
there will be no serious mistakes.

But how can we help this matter so that at the same time
Surely it itself didn’t suffer? And here is the old one
the experience of Bolshevism will be our guide
lighthouse Just like in time

No. 7—8 -

Comrade Lepia in his work “What to do?” ble-
graciously solved the problem of organizing the revolutionary
ational social democracy by creating
centralized party of professionals -
revolutionaries, so are we at first
our design, our ideological growth
and organizational, must followana-
logical way. Not rubbing our movement
zheniya, and its deepening and theoretical:
decoration is the task of our days,
Therefore, we must give the workers of Iran
letcults the opportunity to figure it out on your own
thoroughly in all matters of ‘our work’
and thus create a wide opportunity to deepen
complete production of our work. Otherwise
after all, in words everyone is supporters
proletarian culture, but in reality they are weaving
in the tail, philanthropic cultural trager-
of the old time, repeating its “pre-
flattery." We need to create a cadre of ideological leaders
teachers of Proletcult work. Here
the experience of the old party organization is with us"
children to the rescue. Our underground circles
at one time created entire cadres of management
heroes of our three revolutions of 1905 and 1917 tenge.
so should we, according to our proletarians
methods to create trainer-leaders
a new form of the labor movement. At the same time
it must be borne in mind that your movement can
count on success only in that. case,
if it is entirely in the hands
the workers themselves. Specialists can bring

a strictly defined share of benefit, and so
why, Pro-Cult Movement Kaz
says | the most intimate aspects of feelings

and the thoughts of the workers, and the specialist usually looks
only from my shelf, And one more large
one of the shortcomings of current specialists is
intellectuals. Most of them are s0ver-
definitely had no illegal practices. ra-
bots among the workers, which would give
to a greater degree, the ability to understand these feelings
qualities and thoughts, but they came to us from others
shores and often only spoil the feelings of new
creators, introducing into them decomposition and reflection
Xiyu. This is why the instructor cadre must
be recruited exclusively from among the workers themselves
sneeze

How should our courses be structured?”
In their organization and in their program we need.
to avoid the legacy of culture and culture
clearly outline your tasks. We say
that the culture that is happening before our eyes
will restore the connection between science and. art with
life, and the program of classes for you
clarification of our tasks must be penetrated
welland this essence. It's not a matter of
there were practical classes, and in what
They are connected to all the work. Speaking
in general, the very first task is to
boron of the essence of culture and; in particular, class
owl, proletarian. And the first approach
I must address this issue first,
whether we stand on old soil or whether we act -
thoroughly shook the old Adam. We'll come over
to clarify this and, moreover, clarify
individually, but collectively, by
raising the question of vital organizational issues.
We will proceed from usual practice
and, gradually generalizing this routine,
Let's get to the solution to this issue. Ox
why is one of the most important items ‘kur-
No. 7-5

there will be a course devoted to elements of pro-
flying culture in connection with the history of pro-
flying movement and principles of construction
of socialist culture. Kure
suggests reading T. A. Bogdanov. Parallel
future leaders will be at peace with him
get acquainted, in historical ‘consistency’
ity, with forms of cultural construction
past (lecturers Comrades Arvatov, A. Udaltsov
and E. Khersonskaya). All these activities should
wear "always active, creative ha-
character, accompanied by conversations, personal
observations and, subsequently, writing
independent short reports. Having understood
ways (methods) of cultural creativity,
listeners will easily understand organizational
forms of Proletkult, its ideological role and
significance among other purely proletarian
and Soviet institutions leading cultural
educational work, as well as character
and methods of work of proletarian cultural departments,
studios and institutions (lecturer T.I. Ebedev-
Polyansky). But we think about our work
not on a narrow, local scale, but on an international scale
parodnym, why it is necessary to install
a look at the world revolution, the Soviet
power and foundations of the Soviet constitution
(t. (Krivtsov). These lectures will be
generalization of lessons on practical issues
construction.

Construction issues will spark creative
purely practical in nature, and when we
we will examine construction issuestwa, na-
example, club, we will have to now
bring it into real life, perhaps
only within a small framework, but quite realistic
nykh. Otherwise, experience shows that purely laboratory
rhetorical classes do not bring profit
benefits. Practical questions, of course,
are divided ‘according to the scheme of organization of departments Pro-
Letkult (T. A. Dodonov), and like us
we put forward a studio method of work, then
It is in this direction that we are leading
classes (theater studio - vol. V. Nerzhen-
Tsev, Smyshlyaev, Petrov, art studio
body arts - vol. Ivanov, studio mu-
musical-vocal - lt. B. Krasin and Rosla-
pec, literary—lt. V. Pletnev and Schwartz).
We think of clubs as a union of these
creative endeavors, like the palaces of the proletarian
skoy culture, why their construction
0 will be highlighted as the most important
organizational form of our. movement
(tt, A. Dodonova and S. Krivtsov). It's acute
now a question about the type of our newspapers, magazines
and publications, why this issue will be answered
foam emphatic place emphasizing the meaning
compilation, with publishing technology (vol. V. Nlet-
nev; S. Krivtsov and Schwartz). About the organization
the proletarian library will be read by Comrade.
S. Krivtsov. With the methodology of lecturing,
courses and cycles will be introduced by t, Arvatov,
This issue will naturally be joined by
organization of circle work (i.e. Kriv-
tsov). Repertoire of concerts, evenings will give
Comrade Khersonskaya, she will introduce you to technical
of devices and maintenance of general and commission
s meetings, conferences, rallies, etc.,
The physical training will be given by a doctor
Demidov, and the technique of excursions—i.e. Arvatov.

We believe that ‘nig listeners, in pro-
3 months after working in real life

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 71

/

practice all this’ material, permutsl na
places enriched with a new attitude
and will be able to present the work in a truly
Tara rails leading to the bright kingdom
communism. Only with such work management
the work of cultural construction is not
there will be possible embarrassments that you
they now go for Soviet Russia
strengthI'm gentlemen futurists, typical pre-
providers of a dying, bloodless drill-
juisie,

Moscow Proletkult, staging these courses
with the assistance of the Central Proletkult,
understands well the seriousness taken
they are faced with a task, the outcome of which will
much depends on immediate practice
of our construction. We, and others Prolet-
cults, we are acutely lacking. in my mind-
ly leaders-instructors from the environment
the working class itself. Therefore, the right
Workers use delegations to courses
representatives of working class organizations
tions of Moscow and Moscow province. and Proletkul-
com of the nearest provinces. The courses are free,
but the maintenance of the cadets must be paid for
organizations delegating themselves, Voz-
it is possible that the provincials will be provided
premises for living have been acquired. There will be classes
go both in the morning and in the evening, for about 6 hours
daily, of which half will be
go to lectures and conversations and half to
practical work. Classes expected
start from May 4th. All inquiries are possible. semi-
to join the Moscow Proletkult, in its club
department (Vozdvizhenka, 16, room 2,
tel. 57-40).

We hope that if the courses are successful,
our work on the construction of Proletkults
will become. to firmer feet. Courses
counted for 4,100 cadet delegates and
50 representatives of the Red Army.

In due course we will share with our readers
the results of work on these courses.

St, Krivtsov.

Conferences.

1. Within five days from March 20th to 25th
The Second Koiforiii Moekov took place -
Gorodeky Proletkult. Drink it
447 people were present: 242—decisive
voice, 85—6© advisory and 150—in ca-
honor, Participation in the elections of delegates
hall 193 factories
toroda, and the conference itself consisted of
com from workers. By party affiliation
ness. delegates to the conference were also
very indicative: 55%/, there were communists,
309 who sympathize with them and 15% of non-party
nykh.

The order of the day was: 1) report
© activities of the Moscow Proletkult
(report V. Faydysh),—2) volume and nature of work
bot. Proletkult (report by P.I. Lebedev-o-
Lyansky), - organization of proletarian science
(report by A. Bogdanov),—0© professionalism
(report by V. Pletnev), - Proletarian Theater
(report by V. Kerzhentsev), etc. Sections worked:
clubbing, literary publishing, theater
Naya, music, fine arts
and youthful.
72 PROLETARIAN CULTURE:

The debate flared up mainly due to
range of two reports: on the activities of Moscow-
sky Proletkult and about the volume and nature
works of Proletkult, Representatives of Moscow-
of the Department of Public Education abstract-
whether the conference focused on the main
of these reports and reduced the discussion to
endless bickering about. Tom must
Is it possible for Proletkulgt to exist independently?
telial ortanization, or he must
merge with the Department of Public Education.
The last question was added to the order of the day
conference, as part of the report 0b volume
and the nature of Proletkult’s work, thanks to
which the speaker failed to completely de-
return the provisions of his report, and the debate
reduced exclusively to the question of self-
activity of Proletkult. As a result of the debate
two resolutions were proposed; one
merger of Proletkult with the Department of People's
Education offered by representatives
last; the other - in exchange for an independent su-
the creation of Proletkult, proposing additional
treasurer ‘comrade. 'Lebedev-Polyansky.
It was adopted by a majority of 72 to 37.
speaker's resolution having 'sick
fundamental importance. We will bring this
the resolution in its entirety:

“Second Conference of the Moscow Prolet-
cult, having heard a report on the volume and character-
Among the works of Proletkult, he finds:

1) In further activities there should be
so much attention is focused on race
the focus of the work, how much, on its ideological
deepening,

2) For the purpose of systematic and strictly organi-
called involvement of broad proletarians
Maso into cultural and creative work, Prolet-
the cult comes into close contact with the professional
national organizations, the second congress of the ‘ko-
of which, nwelcoming the construction work
proletarian culture, calls on the proletarian
riat to organic work in a new form
labor movement, represented by Proletkults,
with worker cooperatives and other pro-
Tarian ortanizations that share the principles
principles of proletarian culture:

3) Strictly distinguishing between the klaev work of the cultural

tour-creative from purely educational to
national scale, Proletkult
strives to exert its ideological influence
and for this work, but in order to avoid parallel
nelism comes into certain contact
with @e ‘organization in the spirit of the All-Russian solution
Russian Proletkult Council."

With this resolution the Moscow proletariat
clearly expressed his will on the issue of Pro-
Letkult, and representatives of the Moscow Ot-
affairs’ of Public Education is so
ended” with it, that further meetings ended
they no longer attended conferences; and it was strange
to state their absence, as if
question ©’ cultural and educational work
interesting only in one part: to be
or there will be no Moscow Proletkult. ,

Other questions passed without any friction.

In the resolution on the issue of organization
proletarian ‘science’ conference emphasized
eliminated the need for the closest connection between
du‘ local cultural and educational
organizations and Proletarian University
volume, "in their minds

No. 7-5

and mutual participation in work." Arr-
ny circles and studios of Proletkult should
to be preparatory: a step to the Proletar-
skogo university. } *

The report on the Proletarian Theater was practically
tic character and evoked a lively response
among the conference members. In detail
the draft resolution the conference announced,
that the Proletarian Theater covers all types
theatrical performances, including
games, folk festivals, street performances
events, etc., therefore Proletkult should
prepare their students “for comprehensive
to the general theater of mass action.” In Prole-
Tara Theater needs to unite everything
types of art: literary, musical
and picturesque. Creativity should be 'pro-
empty spiritom collectivism. Emphasizing
the absence of a new proletarian-revolutionary -
new repertoire, the conference offers
temporarily use old plays, more
more relevant to our time, according to

awns processing them under their own
angle of view. At the same time, the resolution
drew the attention of the People's Commissariat for Education to the need
extensive training at theater school
element: dramatization, plasticity, declamation -
tions, gymnastics, etc., as well as organization
tions of school celebrations. |

On the issue of professionalism of any
no fundamental final resolution
was rendered. The issue was considered debatable
sion, and the conference expressed
desire that the Central Committee pro-
Letkult opened this discussion on the pages
“Proletarian Culture”, which is what we are doing
We are hiring in this room, attracting n- participation in
discussions between comrades from the provinces.

From the sectional resolutions it should be noted
pass a resolution on the club issue. In it
stated as 'the basic principle is that
a workers' club should be a public school
identity and concentration of cultural
creativity of the working class. "Club building"
"should be based on territorial
real, not professional principle
(factory club, district club, etc.).

After. conference took place
evening of the Moscow Proletkult. Iro-
it was a great success. At the evening
lamented the delegates of the 3rd Communi-
Sky International, 1t. F. Plaltei,
G. Guilbault, Alberti et al.

The conference did not reassure the representatives
lei of the Moscow Department of Public Education
vaniya, and the question of the existence of the Moscow
Proletkult was introduced by them into the City
Advice. The Council spoke out. merger
Proletkult with the Department. The question has moved
to the Moscow Committee. Russian Communi-
stic Party, which, in the person of its
Executive Commission, unanimously and in
in full agreement © Prolet Conference
cult, accepted the following on April 15th
resolution:

“Believing that the existence of Proletkult,
as cultural creative ^ proletarian

`Organization, useful and nnecessary, Execution

nal Commission of the Mobkovsky Calculation Committee
is at the moment inappropriate to merge
connect Proletkult with the Extracurricular Department
Public Education.
No. 7—5 |

At the same time, the Executive Commission
believes: 4) that an accurate
delimitation of the spheres of activity of Proletkul-
that and the Extracurricular Department; 2) what's between
both organizations must establish
The following is true: 3) that the Moscow Committee
in turn should perhaps even more
contact Proletkult.

I. While representatives of the City
of the Department of Public Education built
Ilans 0b destruction of the City Prolet-
cult, with the closest immediate
Nominal participation of the Department of Public Education
under the Moscow Tuberiyek Council was
Tubernekaya' Conference of the Proletarians was convened
cultural and educational organizations
tions, which created the Moscow Governorate
Sky Proletkult.

The conference opened on April 43rd. On
it was attended by representatives of &3 factories
but-factory backgrounds and cultural-pro-
lighting organizations located in
Moscow province.
< On the order of the day, questions were posed:
4) Proletarian culture (report by V. Pletnev),
e] Proletkult and its significance in cultural
educational work (report by P.I. Lebedev -

Polyansky), 3) Proletarian science (docs.
A, Bogdanova), 4) Creative Theater (report.
V. Kerzhentseva; 5) Music (report by N. Bruso-

howl), 6) Public education and social
construction’ (report by Litkenea), 7) Question
technical education (report by Lengnik),
$) The beauty of proletarian creativity (report.
Rakhmanova); 9) Training of workers for
places (report by L. Ninolesky), 40) Worker
club (report by Milevskaya).

The conference proceedings were completed ©
awareness of the great work that is being done
the revolution entrusted it to Proletkult. Basic
new provisions for his future work
The Boris conference expressed the following
provisions.

1. Socialist revolution, putting-
giving the proletariat the task of ‘building
of new life on new political
and economicallyx relationships, at the same time
set before him the task of mastering and
overcoming bourgeois culture and creating
of their class proletarian culture.

2. Dictatorship of the proletariat, giving the opportunity:-
ability for the proletariat to use widely
cultural values of previous generations,
along with political and ‘economic
movement put forward now
a new form of the labor movement, a revolutionary
national-cultural-creative in the face of Pro-
letkult.

3. Proletkult must concentrate its
attention to creating a variety of new
great organizations in all areas of spiritual
and physical culture, in which they could
to identify talents among the proletarians in
fields of science, literature and art, to
freely and. the seeds developed freely, melting
those in the proletariat,

A. Workers' and Peasants' Government with
with the greatest trust and greatest care
should support these young organizations
tions, since they are called upon to create in the region
Pulture is the new world that we are based on.

|

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 73

already in the field of politics and who
carried out in the field of economics, |

5. Strictly distinguishing class slave culture
tourno-creative from the work of pure and luminous
telny, on a national scale,
Proletkult exerts its ideological influence
and for this job.

6. All proletarian cultural-promotional
corporative organizations of the Moscow province,
for the purpose of organization and regularity of work
in the struggle for proletarian culture, uniting
Nyuteya in Mosnovsky Provincial Prolet-
cult.

At the end of the conference, the “Plan” was adopted
Proletkult organization", developed
The First Congress of the All-Russian Council of Iran
Letkult, and additional resolution ©
composition of Proletkult. The last one says:
“Members of Proletkult must be
only’ proletarians (production people). Slu-
residents and intelligentsia can be attracted
chens as technical forces and law
do not have a casting vote, exclude
members of the R.K.I. and employees,
having a recommendation from members of the working Pro-
letkult". th

In the interests of foodInstitute of construction principles
of Proletarian culture and a more complete
use of cultural and creative forces, con.
The conference was in principle in favor of merging
tion of the City and Guberiekiy 'Proletkul':
Comrade ‚

At the same time, the Third Conference took place
rension of the Petrograd Proletkult. She
attracted a lot of delegates not only from
trograde factory enterprises
ty, but also from the suburbs, passed with most
with enthusiasm and inspiration, supporting
this operation in work in our so difficult
time.

V, K-n.

Report of the Tambov Provincial
Proletkult.

Literary Publishing Department.

The Literary Publishing Department began
its activities since October 1, 1918
in the absence of funds
and employees. Despite the fact that there is a lot
time and effort was spent on eliminating the indicated
technical shortcomings, the Department succeeded
release 'and distribute five issues
monthly magazine, 22,000 copies;
Number 6 ends with dialing and will be released
in the coming days. In addition to the magazine, published
2 brochures - reports from the Tambov and All-Russian
skoy conferences of proletarian cultural-
educational organizations, 10,000 enzymes
plyarov; leaflet "Proletkult - Red"
October”—300 copies—distributed ‘throughout
city and province; draft worker's charter
club, 5000 copies, and several prizes.

Dramatic plays published: A, Pomor-
skiy “Sun Rays” and “Life of Workers”;
it is planned to publish a brochure “Attitude
Marx’s approach to art,” an almanac of creativity
of proletarian writers and a collection of essays
ts works of proletarian writers for
74

repertoire of proletarian theaters and nonzero*
Comrade,

The purpose of the publishing house: the need to supply
reap revolutionary proletarian literature
swarm of cities and villages of the province in view of the complete
impossibility of supplying them with literature
from the center.

Literary studio.

Literary studio of Proletkult from-
hid in mid-January 1919. On the very first
time, over 30 people signed up, but the average
no attendance at present
exceeds 10-15 people... This is explained
thosethat the studio requires systematic
work and careful attendance at lectures.
Thanks to this, regular visitors
studios will naturally only have those products
riches that have genuine thirst
creativity and ‘do not stop at anything
what are the difficulties in mastering complex
technical and theoretical side of literature
portrait art.

Lectures are given and practical work is conducted in the studio.
tic jams on the theory of poetry, provo
dramatic literature, reading a cycle
lectures ‘on the history of Russian literature,
but the philosophy of creativity. Significant attention
mania ‘is given to journalism because
in proletarian journalists who covered
would truly and sincerely forgive life and needs
proletarian masses and expressed authentically
proletarian views on issues of communi-
static construction, Soviet commune
feels a particularly acute need.

Classes are held exclusively in the evenings
from 10 a.m. Studio listeners overwhelmingly
the majority are workers and Red Army soldiers. For
for greater development of amateur performances
listeners are interviewed,
In addition, as students succeed, they
are attracted to cooperation in local “Izve-
events" in the magazines "Coming Culture"
and "Red Army Man and Worker".

Fine arts studio.

From the moment the studio was opened, i.e. from January
month of 1919, there are two operating
business: picturesque and architectural. Departments
sculptural and decorative (applied
art) could not improve due to the lack
suitable premises. Work and production
is located in two rooms, which had a significant impact
during the work.

The painting department covers the following works:
oil paints, watercolors and charcoal:
1) from the simplest forms (geometric),
2) dead nature, 3) living nature - portrait,
sketches. In the near future the group will work
nikov will start doing nudity and
mainly for creative work. B
architectural department attention to the main
way addressed to the design and
composition. ›

Lectures were given for both departments on
history of art, philosophy of art and
perspective theory.Started organizing
lectures on anatomy and highly specialized
al topics on painting techniques. Everyone

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

\ 7—

listeners (students - members) signed up
more than 125 people. Unfortunately, many do not
may begin work in the absence
premises. ,

The sculpture department opened on April 9.
About 50 people signed up. Sculpture
department brought a lot of excitement and interest to
ness,

Studied the art arena,

The studio opened on October 20, 1918.
The subjects of the classes are as follows: 1) on. studios
declamation - diction, declamation, collection
active reading, facial expressions and versification,
analysis of materials for readings, production
voices, rhythmic dancing and gymnastics,
history of art, rhythmic declamation and melodic
recitation, 2) in the theater studio—
principles of theatrical art, meaning
technology before and now, stage embodiment
speech and gesture, practical exercises
tiya, directing, approach to performance, an-
ensemble and makeup.

Art Arena Studio hosts
the most active participation in all festivities
and concerts and rallies organized by the party
and Gubiroletkult. Studio repertoire
are the works of proletarian writers-
oils and poets performed in a collective
‘reading’ and dramatizations. In addition to the studio
were delivered at different times as follows:
current plays: “The Royal Barber” by A. V.
Lunacharsky and “Dawn” by Verhaeren.

Musical and vocal studio.

All preparatory work for the opening
music school at the studio was in favor
ended by December 1, 1918, and from the first
December numbers gave us the opportunity to start
theoretical and technical-instrumental
school work. Isolated from the general population
the number of people signed up is significant
some of the studio students are distributed according to their specialties
cial groups that make up:
choir group (about 120 people); orke-
string troupe (about 70 people). Except
studio members deepen their technical work
their knowledge through the analysis of musical
works and critical attitude
to executable. All listeners in the studio
and teachingthose in the musical igola to report-
Nowadays there are over 700 people.

Students are divided by age at the bottom
groups: younger (children up to 15 years old) and older
shuyu (from 15 and above), `

Senior group, Except below placed -
music program, two
attends history lectures once a week
socialism, cultural history and political
economics in higher public schools.

Music school program;
1) music theory in connection with the study of music
Letarian song creativity; 2) basics
harmony of musical forms (general concepts);
3) school choir; 4) technical
school on all musical instruments.

Study program in the studio: 1) history
music of all ages and peoples in connection with
economic situation, general growth

<

No.

7-5
culture and civilization, 2) listening course
music (aesthetics), 3) musical group-
creative work, 4) staging choral and solo
ny voices, 5) choral and solo singing.
The music school and studio are served by
over 30 lenders across all industries
music education. At the studio
formed from the most successful
participants; concert choir numbering over
100 people, led the Corus orchestra of 30 people
neck, brass band of 30 people and orchestra
balalaika players of 35 people.

A choir was formed earlier than other studios,
already has quite significant
achievements in terms of technical and artistic
technical training. But his repertoire
due to the lack of suitable musical
leaves material in the spirit of the proletariat
wish for the best, and in this direction
proletarian musicians face a huge task
vocal studios to create themselves
such works that would be
from the flesh of the proletariat itself and would call
the moods and impressions we need,

The social significance of the choir and now
is quite significant. He is
the best decoration is the Koitsertov Meetingo,”
attracting listeners and giving them a good
aesthetic rest from the day's labors.

The demands on him have increased so much that,
not wanting to interfere with the direct task of the young
choirbut to study and deepen your work,
have to refuse the choir's demands
many organizations in the city.

They led the Corus orchestra, which reached the city at -
personal success in execution, mainly
together folk songs, also takes part
participation in concerts and rallies. Brass band
and the Laechnikov ballroom orchestra—in the period of formation
vaniya.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

75

Musical and creative circle.

The studio has a musical
creative circle. Those who signed up for this
circle of local musical forces made
in the field of music. creativity so far
very little: several musical songs have been written
works that are musically approved -
editorial committee and their implementation
at concerts and rallies. Cause weak
efficiency lies mainly
in difficult living conditions. Everyone is busy
official work, and there is almost no opportunity
devote time to creative work, cat
heaven requires fresh spiritual energy and
concentrated attention.

'All those entering the music choir
studio musical works, as well as
and. everything from old sheet music
must be performed publicly by studio members on
their performances must go through approval
commitment of the editorial commission to the task
which includes consideration of plays’ literature
tour and musical content. Accepted
works are intended for publication. On-
a number of collections of works have been marked for publication
of choral and solo works, according to
various technical difficulties prevent
opportunity to immediately implement this
task.

During the October celebrations, the editorial
naya commission together with the literary
department published a collection of revolutionary
songs in the amount of 5000 copies.

Tambov Gubernskry Prolet-
cult. April 20, 1919

Bibliography, those

A. A. Sidorov, Revolution and ‘art’,
Moscow, 1918. 31 pages. Price 1 t, 50 kopecks.

There is often debate about whether pro-
flowering of art revolution or not, Pain-
more negative answers are being heard, and now
examples of the prosperity of art are given
stva in times of despotism and @go zamirania in
moments of revolutionary upsurge, in order to
to answer this question correctly, you need to
get to know historically how this or that influenced
a different social state of art.
A. Sidorov's brochure gives us an interesting
material on this matter. The author claims
that previously the creator was annoyed by censorship of decent
naughty and indecent, and even more official-
style or canon, which for its pro-
glorification was created by one or another exploitation
Torah power. An example of creating
at the request of Napoleon, a special type of it
face, completely unlike the “living ori-
gival. From Russian life we can bring
is not a mandatory requirement for artists
depict Alexander 1 as bald (he has
‘there was a completely bare skull), and necessarily
© hair. And even more power overhead -
leaves its mark on the monumental use

art, We would say not power, but general
national building.

The development of democracy in the past, and now
dictatorship of the proletariat and will liberate the
forces from under the yoke of convention and obligation
body style, the law of beauty (canon).
The past of art gives the answer to this - take...
meme the flowering of art in the democracy of Athens

In the century before Christ, Renaissance Italy,

France during the Great Revolution. In
last at that time you especially flourished
rates; during this period David creates the most
interesting works of his, - a picture of death -
ti Marat or “Oath in the ballroom”, —-
directly inspired by the revolution, the Republic of Kal -
the feat is celebrated publicly in Athens
on the ploikadi of the statues of Harmodius and Aristogeiton,
these tyrannicides; in Florence Donatello
with her Judith, cutting off the head of Holofer-
pu, gives, in his own words, “an example of salvation”,
and there Miquel Applegelo creates David,
fighter against the tyrant Goliath. This way
z30m we see that for creative ideas
era of revolutionary struggle was especially favorable
pleasant, - however, for their fulfillment these
plans need comparative rest, but
76

that peace for creators is what the revolution gives,
Our time has attracted the interest of artists -
Chvortsov to the spanAryan struggle, they are py-
trying to express the spirit of the New Age. Here we are
We disagree with the author, because neither Verhaeren (and co-
certainly not V. Bryusova), neither Manier nor Stein-
Lane, who has now fallen into imperialism, we
We do not call them Artists of modern times:
at best they tried from the outside
depict the current titanic struggle
for communism.

The shortcomings in the said book, Despite
due to the high cost, it was published very sloppily -
but the reproductions of the pictures are very blurred;
Typos that distort the meaning are also annoying.
hour meaning. The art of Athens dates back to the 15th century.
ku instead of U century (p. 10); instead of 1793—
years of the Jacobin dictatorship, I am the terror indicated
1783 (on page 23); and finally Delacroix gave
a picture of the February Revolution of 1848,
as the author claims, and the July revolution
tions of 1830 (p. 24). Subsequently, due to
Denmark, we hope these mistakes will be eliminated"
we,

The book by A. Sidorov deserves attention
with just one correct formulation of the question
about revolution and art.

A:

K. Zaleveky. Isku 1 ro. r
Ed. V. Ts. I. K. Moscow, 1918 a. 48 stf.,
with drawings. Price 3 francs. 50 k.

From everyone who talks about the proletarian
culture and the paths leading to its creation, we
‘naturally, we demand thoughtfulness in our
buildings and clarity of their provisions. Exactly
now, when this issue is still in
stage of theoretical development, more than
is it ever necessary to theoretically sharpen
There are a number of controversial issues. This is the question
so and how it will create a new culture (proletarian-
skaya). .

In this regard, the bropiora of the deceased T.K.
K. Zalevokogo can bring his own
by their provisions and their last part
much harm by introducing confusion into the clear
question, perfectly revealing the combat character
proletarian class culture, the origin
waiting in the storm of struggle, the author omits the
The new moment is collective work. Author yes-
Here is a concise but vivid outline of the history of art
past days, but when he begins to find out
to understand how the proletariat creates its own culture

ru, then this is where the confusion begins, from.

which we would like to warnb reader.

On page 29 the author is right. claims
"go" intelligentsia, thanks to their mental
development, can perceive the ideas of prolongation
tariat, but it is not able to deeply pro-
nickname him. feelings and aspirations"
a few lines below it is stated
‹completely opposite, namely; "Proletarian-
‹some art, due to difficult social
‘conditions are only in the embryo, His
founders, creators are the main
we are professional artists who come from
bourgeois environment, captured by the power of pro-
letarian movement, imbued with its spirit
home, trends, aspirations, ideals,”
“what is possible in countries where the proletarian
movement plays a major role in political
life, such as in Belgium”, Sovere-

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. L

>

7-8

Having made this logical leap, the author argues
that the founder of proletarian art,
the first organizer of the feelings of the proletariat
is V. Mainier, and it is repeated further that
it was he who first reproduced the psyche of the worker
what class (p. 30). The reader has the right to expect
that K. Monier will also give a revolutionary pathoe
the only revolutionary class today—
proletariat. But this. no, and strangely
the author's explanation (p. 33), this is emphatically
to a certain extent is explained by the fact that in creativity
K. Magnier reflected primarily the general 0co-
the benefits of the proletariat and its historical
role, kan of the creator of a new culture. The same era
revolutionary movements were also experienced by others
other classes, so that revolutionism with its pa-
phos is also characteristic of them, without being distinctive
essential feature of the proletariat, Here we are
we are completely perplexed, because we believe that
but the proletariat is always revolutionary, namely
it (p. 27) is characterized by constant movement
forward, development (dynamism). Having made this mistake -
ku, the author classifies the proletarians as
debtors even to Menzel, the singer Krupp and
face of Fritz.

K, Mainier doesn’t have to call iro-
letarian artist, if only because
Belgian clerics consider him one of their own, and
It’s not for nothing that in the summer of 1909 in Duven SD priestsate-
or a posthumous exhibition of Mainier's works,
on which the writer of these lines managed to
happen. Mainier gives a picture of hopelessness
labor, and not transforming it into a new bright
communist labor. This is his desire
was alien, and for this alone it cannot be
be enrolled as proletarian artists.

On this theoretical mistake of the author, we
pay special attention; she repeats -
Xia often. In passing, we note that the author does not
distinguishes proletarian poetry of this time -
neither from social nor even socialist. *

The book by T. K. Zalevsky was published excellently:
beautiful font and beautiful paper, on which
which perfectly reproduced the photographs of the car-
tin. As work that touches on the main zones
requests of our movement, ‘even if wrong-
by resolving them correctly, she deserves
readers' attention.

It needs to be corrected in the next edition
errors; Mainier's statues are not forged, as
writes the author’ and cast from ‘bronze (p. 7)’a
The prophetesses Sibylla were not among the Greeks, like u-
stated on page 21, ay the Romans. ;

x St. Nrivtsov.

Groshik, Razy. From0; p. ogra, 20
Fly by. 32 countries. Price 1 rub.

This book contains three stories:
“Potrava”, “Cutting” and “Pronkino’s Life”.
The first two themes are taken from village life,
and the last one from the life of a villager’. teenager
from a shopkeeper, a milkman in the city.

Themes are taken from pre-revolutionary times,
and they are processed in accordance with the’ modest
and the independent talent of the author.
And yet the broad mass of the people are pro-
honors this little girl with pleasure,

All the stories are written in a completely literary way -
in a natural and artistic language, besides
they are warmed by special love for the offended
fate of people.

In the story “Potrava” there is a strong feeling

No. 7-8

anger of I. S. Turtenev © his “Bezhin”
“Meadow”, in the story “Pronkino’s Life”
the evil of A.P. Chekhov with his “Vanka Zhuko-
you."

Groshik is looking for new topics, not processed
understands them from a new proletarian point of view,
does not give new forms, kan and other nisa-
working potions (the time has not yet come); \over
Aztor is strong “the power of zomli”and she gets in the way
him to concentrate his artistic attention
mania for the new emerging life.

If GroshIk his illness “power of the earth”
he will overcome, # we must help him with this,
he will be able to give us more than one story that
bulet contribution to proletarian literature.

Groshik knows how to organize his ideas and
images, he has a sincere feeling and
writing skill is not bad for some writers -
professionals.

P. Miner.

Vaenliy Ignatov. "Wedding Party"
Household picture in '1 act. Edition
Petrograd Pfroletkult. 32 countries
prostrate. Price 1 fbl.

A thing that under no circumstances can be traced
I had time to print, but... publish more from
a useful book. She's imperfect in every way
relationships—and as a work of art
conduct in general, and as a picture for a scene in
in particular. s

There is no spinal column in the work.
Having gathered for a party on the occasion of civil
marriage of one of his comrades,
workers spend the whole evening leading
conversation on the most diverse social
political themes, some quite deliberately,
others half-consciously, some literary
language, others, imitating the folk
tongue, mangled tongue. There is a discussion going on
questions about workers' control, about the war,
© Soviet authorities, about wine cellars, about new
about art, about a new marriage, about women's
question and much more; 060 to all this
is said on 30 pages, and therefore, aste-
indeed, in two or three words, incoherently and incoherently
clearly. There is no plot. The whole thing is
consists of a series of stereotyped expressions
thoughts that have already become the property of the masses of workers
what class. The author didn't even bother with these
thoughts, Of course, as befits a proletarian
sky writer, the most advanced, to bring together
to some logical system, and it turned out
complete chaos, not artistic production
conducting.

There is not a single person in the work, but

torus the reader could concentrate his
attention; they are all flat, pale, similar
at each other like walking coins.
Talk about "Wedding Party" like
about a thing suitable for production, perfect
very seriouslyhappens. From all of these. teach-
private conversations can lead to boredom.
There are things that have no content, but there are
action, interesting moments; in this same
things - no action, no interesting moments.
Wedding party - it seems that it would be possible here
give as much action as you like, but comrade. Igna-
Comrade managed to make this party
something like a boring sermon, at best
case - a poorly drafted proclamation in
in the style of Moscow fritters, as he put it
the late Plekhanov, ;

1

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

And

Naturally, not about any roles, at least
boring and tedious is out of the question.
A thing without roles and action, but Comrade Igna-
Comrade claims to be a theater expert.

In a word, the Petrograd Proletkult
such things should be published.

>

village Rudonop. at

"Beeps." Weekly Moscow Pension Fund
Letnulta, 1, 2. Price 1 fbl.

"Beeps" are emitted when there is direct

and the most active participation of comrades from
literary studio.
‚ The general impression of a fresh young creative
quality. Good poem by V. Aleksan-
Drovsky’s “In the Fire” (To a Red Army Girl),
although the influence is noticeably felt on it
A. Blok. Nice psychological sketch
Nvetkova “I and He.”

While the futurists and imagists
(they were born the other day) they shout everywhere that they
representatives of proletarian art, workers
of the literary studio of the Moscow Prolet-
cult in Olenin’s article they state: “Since
moral and artistic value is insignificant
the identity of these’ last offspring of the bourgeois
culture (i.e. futurists), this quintessence
essences of artistic infertility and dis-
the position of the bourgeois insus@tva, insofar as
their physical impact is great.” "Go-
futurists using the apparatus
Soviet power, betray their rotten drill-
zhuaz 'art for the proletarian'.

This is the only correct point of view
and all Proletkults must conduct the most energetic
hygienic struggle against decadence, futurism
imagism in all areas of art,
poetry, painting and music.

In "Gudki there is a Proletemech department"——
proletarianlaughter. Images are scourged in it
ists, ridiculed by "Jerome Jasinski"
relics”, which the publishers of Shetrograd honor
Council, Gastev and his
iron, cotton wool and screws.

"Iron, iron, iron,
Iron everywhere you look
\Our poetry is entangled— /
. Ah, the iron days are hard
writes Keys.

Most interesting of all are the dedications of S, Ese-
Nina and A. Bely.

Ivan Eroshin. catching
poetry, writes venomously;

Yesenian genre

“Oh, you, my canopy, canopy,
There were sensi, but there were no sensi.
Yesenin calved again,
A modern poet.
Oh Mother of God,
Oh My Jesus
I will multiply you
I'll get along with you:
Oh, Rus', my joy.
Wow, the spaces are great.
There's my flock grazing—
There are cows and heifers,

Oh, you, my canopy, my canopy...

what the hell is it?
Maybe Sergei Yesenin
He’ll give you at least a cup of milk,”
79

spirit of Yesenin and
less. poisonous

To peasant poets, in
Oreshina, dedicated not
article in No. 2 “Gudkov”:

V. Kazin, learning forms from A. Bely
versification, recommends it to proletarians
in these words:

“All his gestures, his gestures,

Inspiredly drunk from gestures.
Should we take a look at it?

What if he himself is made of tin.”

You were not mistaken, comrade. Kazii,
without inspection.

The collections contain a chronicle related
with the activity of Proletkult, and library
graphy The latter is unsatisfactory.
“It’s completely incomprehensible how one can recommend
to publish B. Timofeev’s book “The Sorrowful Cup”.
The editors should be especially sensitive to reviews
attentive; should always be relied upon
and the assessment of a reviewer, especially an inexperienced one
in this matter.

Treating with great sympathy "Good-
memory, we must note some haste
carelessness, ill-conceived work, lack of self-control
the quality of the topic, especially satire and criticism,
Chory even NI in relation to
"to your comrades,

The second number is weaker than the first.

It's not so much about being neat
release of the weekly, how much for the value
‘printed, This is an old truth, but sometimes
Why bother reminding her,

y V: G.

it's even clear

"Our Horn". Monthly and
PIT) G

ur
zebrafish Bemsitsiogo Proletkult. No. 1. An-
zel 1919

The idea of proletarian culture andpassionate,
full of enthusiasm, the fight for it is getting wider and wider
and embraces the proletarian masses more widely,
Fast! provincial, district and even volost
iroletcults. Often the idea of the proletarian
culture is not entirely clear to the pioneers of the new
life, but the emerging organs are still
they say that this clarity permeates everything
large and large circles of the working class,
in! movement in depth does not lag behind the movement
width.

Perednami is a new proletkult journal
al "Our Horn". Despite the occurring
it has serious shortcomings, we are with great
with a gasp and interest we read the page
"page, New, fresh, young, vigorous
is felt in these pages; let it not
Not everything is always well thought out and harmonious
expressed, it will come in time, important
a new spirit of thirst for construction and understanding
the challenges facing the working class
in the field of culture.

Sometimes, in moments of decline and failure,
‘You bark into pessimism, you underestimate the progress
certain stages, but when you open the magazine
of one or another proletkult, especially again
`has arisen,/ you immediately see how deeply
the idea of proletarian culture came to life,
"The energy and thirst for work are increasing again -
Photos in this area, despite the heavy
Your work will be tough during your difficult days.

The first editorial finds out
"our tasks". The comrades agree quite clearly

`

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 7-5

know that “before creating anything
the new, its own, the proletariat will be allowed to pass through
difficult period of quest, nunya penetrated
to be filled with faith in the coming triumph of ‘their own’
ideas and, having understood that “cultural”
the chaos we inherited
build a new building stone by stone
proletarian culture."

Speaking about the culture of the bourgeois world, then-
comrades put these words in quotation marks, expressing
this is their negative attitude towards culture
tour of past centuries; it's obvious from the outside
of the working masses who saw. in this culture
one oppression and exploitation, but it
still dictated more by feeling than
analysis of the mind. However, the editors themselves
adds: “It is clear that something will have to
something from the past-what will have to happen-
learn from our enemies, but in general it is necessary
to abandon the old world." This is certain
so, in the captain’s world. there is a price
ties, ‘which. we must take advantage
to engage, even critically, in construction
the essence of a new life.

The magazine contains articles: “Science, art
stvo and u and “New Horizons”
in philosophy."

Despite the imprecision of thought and language,
The first ‘article gives in its main provisions
niah is the correct answer. Author with full
declares with reason that “our century is proud
abundance of disciplines”, that “modern man-
century, be it the most outstanding shadow, not
‚ will be able to master all the knowledge accumulated
for centuries. Here we see a typical
for capitalist production. In science
was the same “anarchic, dis-
unity, lack of a single goal. You can
to say, because of the trees the forest was not visible;—

thanks to the abundance of sciences, it was not visible
sciences".
Summarizing his thoughts, the author finds

in bourgeois science the following bright traces
of its era; “Firstly, isolation from
life; secondly, the lack of a common goal;
thirdly, unnecessary and excessive specialization
ization, disunity of individual disciplines
plin and even parts of a single discipline;

fourthly, the workshop is closed _ character,
made the spider inaccessible, thanks
deliberately created siecial language”,

Awareness of all these negative sides
bourgeois science does not lead the author to co-
perfect | denial of old science that
often happens to pioneers of a new business.
Vice versa. He points out that the luggage is
zhuaz science is great and valuable and everything valuable
must be preserved and used,
although not without severe criticism,

The author’s view of art is also correct.
“The world of images is large and varied. Art-
nature embodies it, but, being not only
beauty and strength, claim ustvo’ vasno (cap
social - ly f r. Not co- -
the final words sound clearly and clearly to everyone
lines of the article: “Art must immerse itself
into the clear waters of collective motives,
lective creativity and, having washed away one’s dirt,
light up and shine wonderfullyaction star -
corporeal individuality, feeling
yourself with thousands of twists connected with everyone and
everyone with me." Important defenses are affected here.

L 7-5

prosy: oh. collectivism of motives, about collectivism
nom creativity, about individuality with
socialism; all this is so important and big
questions, ‘what to interpret them in two or three
lines is not possible.

second article—“New horizons in philosophy”
“Offii”—reveals confusion of consciousness
the author and ignorance of the subject about which he
interprets; besides, the article ‘was not written’
in a language accessible to the masses, with what intention
the editorial board is fighting, with its head
is the author himself. The main article is correct
the idea that philosophy will cease to be “the former
with its dry abstraction—abottraction,”
“she will become the breath of life itself, her
trembling youth."

The magazine contains poetry; although they are better
many published in other publications, but
They are not distinguished by their novelty of form and design.
exist, their content is generally democratic.

The story "Ryabinin" is quite long; topic
®go is interesting and taken from our days, but
written too sensitively and weakly
Hello, the author talks about enthusiasm
revolutionaries and their experiences
n connection with the division of revolutionary forces
"February coup in a new stage
revolution against communists and founders.

Recently, it has been noticed that workers
writers begin to expand their circle
topics that do not fit into the framework of a small
“lividity, and move on to the form of dis-
tale or drama.

We welcome this step as a step
Fed and, naturally, we warmly wish that the author
stories with each new thing went
on and on.

Not a good magazine cover.

V. p.

"Edge Morning". Orgies of Orlovsky Shro-
Letkult No. 1. 1919

This magazine is different from other flyers
cult bodies in that oh except-
strictly literary and artistic. This is
of course - a disadvantage; in the governing body
This is what “Red Morning” should be, in theory,
articles on_various issues are needed
proletarian culture. On the ground, in pro-
Province often lacks this fortheoretically
“a lot of articles that are so needed by the wider
the working masses and who they are with such
it’s catchy, but you still have to try
write them down without being embarrassed that the thought will be taken out
struck clumsily and rudely,

In the first article, “The Thorny Path,” in which
talks about spiritual values and Soviet
journalists, etc. which is like ‘re-
ction, there are significant inaccuracies
ness. The author states: “What remains is
to him only that which bore the stamp of universal humanity
eternal and was built on truth"; exit
It’s as if there is some kind of eternal truth.
The question of the essence of truth, its origin
research and development has been raised more than once in the mark-
“philosophy has expired, and we have come to a solid
home to the conclusion that there are no eternal truths except
such as between two mountains lies a hollow,
Maybe the author has a language error,
but it causes significant harm in production
concerned about the worldviews of broad strata of workers
what class, and we must strive to express

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

79

your idea more accurately. In another place of the same
article we read the following lines: “Veyakogo
rank modernists, decadents, realists,
“donkeys”, hooligans and others are clean”,
singing about all sorts of moral rot,
they made some kind of trueli out of the printed word
what a stupid freak who is funny
and falyshizo flirted with all sorts of “new
paths" and generally no further than the hallway
moved,” Here the author has gone too far
and completely unreasonably to anyone
kind of “istam” attracted realists. He's obviously
does not know or has forgotten that at one time the group
Marxists—philosophers, critics and economists
mystov - a collection of articles was published under
title: “Essays on realistic industrial
views." And we dare to assure the angry cries
tics from "Red Morning" that they are in the "front-
they didn’t trample on her, but on the contrary, they called and excited
waited with their well-aimed word, full of courage
and enthusiasm for the fight for our socialist
ideals,

The authors of these articles were A. Lunachar-

skiy, A. Bogdanov, V. Fritsche, deceased
Shulyatikov and many others.
The article “Apology of Gra-

fomani". The author collected and selected interesting
examples to illustrate his thoughts, but from
the whole tone of the article one feels that he is under-
evaluates the meaning for a writer to be able to
fluently master the literary form,

The article “Songs of the Dawns of the Future” on-
written without internal inspiration, but with characteristic
poetry poetry comrade. V. Kirillova she gives
quite true and accurate. The author noted
that the poet-worker is alien to the bourgeois self-
loving, selfish, anarchic
and individuality; speaking about the organization
bathroom collective struggle, poeg advanced
‘Lena’s first place is “we”, not “I”. His songs
were born in “noise! multicolored steel ma-
tires”, “in the radiance of electric salts”; these
songs are powerful, they strengthen the soul, they
give confidence in victory, they are eager to work
what class? “These songs are the mighty one
salt, life and struggle; this is a challenge
inclined to an evil, painful fate."

The reviewer commented unsuccessfully
poet that

fishing

"When your rebellion thunders,
And your sword is red,

Sparkling in the smoke,

Smites enemies,—

He, killing and destroying,
Different, beautiful

The world is creating."

The author writes: “The new iron Messiah
raises a sword not only for the sake of destruction,
calls for death not only for the sake of murder.”
The word “not only” distorts our position.
It gives the thought a color that
riat still calls for the sake of destruction and for the sake of
murders. This is not true. The proletariat is completely
shakes them out of necessity, out of stubborn resistance
the phenomena of the bourgeoisie defending its world.
Killing for the sake of 'killing, destruction for the sake of
destruction, of course, never entered
into the working class program"

We also don’t understand 10 why
the author thinks that “it would seem that the songs
"golden days to come" must be looked forward to

flight- ,
80 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 7-9

not in many smoky factories, but somewhere better to feel the
lush parks of nobles and princes, where births are heard, than in the lordly parks.

streams and nightingales sing, or in living rooms, / In the stories “In the Taiga” and “Toward the Sun” is visible
upholstered in silk and covered with soft cotton and imitation.
Vrami "... The first thing was written byits poetic

The conscious worker, and perhaps more figuratively than the second, is satisfied with the dryness.
It never seemed to the world's strata that the Poems were not distinguished by novelty, but...
songs of workers' liberation will be born from the double-poly are satisfactory.
Ryans and princes; and as for the murmuring of streams › A. 0.
and the singing of nightingales, then the charm of this can be

The editors of the journal ask you to send them work journals for review.
and defenders of proletarian writers and poets.

\
=
s`

`Oh
ыы |

*
#

Publisher - Editor -

All-Russian Council Prolet. K.-Pr. Organizations, “Editorial Nolegia.

Second State Printing House. Trekhprudny, 9.