r

„Gorn.

BOOK ONE

Moscow

PROLET-CULT
191%.
*.
4

y re y Dt
Naya
. m
H

cheto SEN

=:

5

"BURN".

With special feeling, Proletkult enters the second year of the revolution, and celebrates
the commemoration of the great October days for him is at the same time the celebration of his
work, its possibilities and its implementation. Only the victory of the proletariat opened
the prospect of unlimited and deep educational activities in the field
cultural self-education of the working class. Belief in the fruitfulness of work
Proletkult is at the same time the proletariat’s faith in its own strengths -
and that’s why October days are a real holiday for us.

But celebration should not mean idleness. On the contrary, more than when
or, one must exert all one’s strength and all one’s energy, so that through tireless labor it is worthy
celebrate the victory of the working class.

The year of the revolution is a period sufficient for, after overcoming
a number of external issues to move on to creative ‘resolution’
internal issues. The power of bourgeois culture is almost everywhere
confronts us still undefeated, and it is by no means easy to overthrow. Nearby
with the tasks of external legislation, revolutionary transformation of the general
legal institutions and forms of life, we still have to regenerate
the entire way of life, ways of thinking hardened into habitual inertia,
Feelings, imagination. The very way of life, starting from the manner of dealing with each other
friend and ending with private legal institutions, must be implemented by us and
reborn, a proletarian culture had to be created, embracing all sides
life, not only a system of worldview and attitude, but also organically
associated with it, generating it and generated by it, world perception, “world feeling”
“stood” a special “mood”, “style” that penetrates all pores of life
body. } —

The celebration of the October Revolution, its labor celebration, obliges
we are very close to building a socialist state and society
Towards the identification and implementation of socialist psychologyogy and culture, .

It is precisely this task - not to reason only < but the Ur tour, not
only with reason to determine its paths and rationally
Pour it in; but to create it, but creatively imagined)
thoughts, images, feelings that are not indicated by the finger%,, 4 amoy
flesh, the very blood of socialist culture - it is precisely this task that
Vil seb" Proletkult. with |

8,

One of the ways to carry out this enormous work is, along with the general
creative activities in clubs, circles, workshops, studios, etc.—
is the publication of books and magazines.

While "Proletarian Culture" is mainly devoted to
clarification and coverage of general theoretical issues within the scope of
activities of Proletkult, “Gorn” strives to reflect the practical work
on the translation of theoretically realized tasks into practice. “Horn”—horn and seismic
the graph of this work, its accounting and its conductor. In accordance with this purpose,
“Gorn” is divided into the same departments as Proletkult: From the second issue
bulet, a “Communication with the Reader” department was introduced, parallel to the now traditional
relevant in the immediate work of Proletkult through general interviews. Goal
this department is self-evident; it is a living, organic connection between the magazine and
his reader.

We have no doubt that more than once we will mistake it for gold ore. neither
why quartz is unsuitable, and in shifting sand we will not be able to distinguish gold - very
it is likely that very often we will be partial in our love, and in our hatred -
The whistles are unfair, but that is why the purifying flame of the forge exists,
so that everything in it burns out and is reborn again. It is quite natural that in
in the furnace there are slags, but they are only there because they are in the furnace
the ore is smelted into metal.

Editorial.

pharynx @

S. T. Konenkov.

>
=
=
2=
m“
I'm with
- m
NY 7
o
I eat
=
ZN >
2s
>
For
for
s
t

5 t
+ .
h
k +
$,

in“

And the silent horror is unshowy. © 2

_ That's a rosy vevoik, p,

BURN. 5

October.

(Excerpts from the poem).

Moscow has been alarmed for three days
Fermenting menacing wife. E:

And like a heavy fence, =: &

Vague words surrounded the city and no.
Boundaries, “tomorrow” and “yesterday” about EL a
Along the walls of the Kremlin cadets’ o a
And in the arsenal at Zazyura 4 >
Fifty-six is bored. - RI A
Isn't everything peaceful? To the squeal of 1r:
Tolia servants are nomadic in

From Red Square to Tvero
I eat at six o'clock
Momentary movement. interrupting - 2nd
`Look at the locked Kremlin. —
r: FOR

5 ;
HER.
$
. $.

And fear guards us
Lanes, squares, bridges, = a
And she can threaten with a dark barrel,—
And evening E

Under the washed-out
And is reputed to be in a distant lane

Gary. ma

From all sides, from all outskirts,
Kayu thicket of scorched taiga
Shining with frozen bayonets, |
How the fog melts in the darkness

And barked like a cutting wind

Regiment after regiment hurries to the Council.

When the foggy dawn

It's time to head east

Drive the foaming horses on the road,
The night stream has subsided

And hide in fear
They were afraid to scare the silence:

So the condemned are on the chopping block
They fear death in every swing
Not giving up.

Everywhere there are bayonets, bayonets, bayonets... |

I.

`We are tormented by a deep premonition,

Ilya got up injured on Saturday.

It turns out. In the morning fog | ,
Confusion beats before him'

The wings of alarmed birds

`In dizheni roofing felts, in extraordinary

Anxious silence, frightened faces,

Frozen in the tribulation of mystery. V .
How the wind blows in the morning

River fog, smoking scarlet - c.

How the Cheli hurries to the pier board, 2%
Or a traveler in the fall to the fire— |
Tolia, drawn by greed | i) RI

(Gossip, shouting, rumors, r
I wanted to go to the center of Moscow,

Where is the infantry shooting?
Prepares the morning noon ® battle. s

to u Re, . [1 :\ Unit
$

Hello, Death! I came out to you,
Stand up like a faithful sentry.

Zero-thrower embroidered patterns
Above the head, p
The bullet flew like a fly from RK

Past the frightened ear, .

Clicked his saber at his shoulder

The high school student is rash.

Where, smebTf, are you at this hour?

Cheated on a friend or something 7
Or. hid © Fright r
In the alleys on Tverskaya? th {
, ‚Well! Where Pushki rules
- s _ The bustle of noisy places
Under the shaking guns |’ |
Instruct your koasny cret,
On -Leontievsky, onBryusov, |
G | Podbizal dashing and cowardly,
t. K. Chernyshovsky © sister
like the wounded are hanging through the line. ‚ |
| Why are you backing away?
% Dare to call for retribution?
Aren’t you waiting for’ on Abata

At the barbed barricades?

,
r

y waves wok il
5 Night of Severa, "ola" VO,
| : I didn’t comply with the rules from 07t.
Prytanv u zhorol sir, 2
Like thoughtful devils, >.
Punpem line-® row
$ ’ And the Moscow River is glaring.
bla will spit their Zanal
where will the gift be sent: (
. In the round dance of big hotels, 4
those Or. in neither arsenal?

EA

‘ ha

} Along the arc of Zamoskvotechye,

From the station, to the station—
r fans and injuries
It seems to us that there is a shaft behind the rampart.

E _ The bottom leaked blood:
as much as | 'My "car" has long been a cemetery, 1:
I myself am the death of Yamshchuk,
The Tireless Undertaker
since VN I am steering the wheel behind Death,
and Chu-zh is notable among others
AIS - Not noticeable when tired

| Not a very good trace of bullets?

oh, this, now. irugom,

#

PORN,

You're on the prowl. Looking. The smoke is thick.
So you go, you go, you go, ‘|!
It's like you're delirious, delirious, delirious
Blood spilled.

GU.
|.

Twirl, twirl, twirl, twirl
There's a buzzing sound in the sky -

The ensign is thin. a narrow dirk
Cuts bullet points.

ra

Shot after shot, dump after dump
° Koyu:
Who kills whom? Z
It will be noted in memory of yu zha‘kyu
Whose celebration?

PS

Spinning, rertiteya - chorgy, chorgik
I rented a new buzzing one.
The ensign has a thin, narrow corti-
com!
Cuts bullet points.

t

_ Butts hit the ground;
'The frightened souls
They fight helplessly like that.
The clouds are hanging all around,
I will listen to the voice of battle
(Through the torn darkness.

2.

Bullets hit the walls

It was like a child was crying,

Lolgo, long time - without strength. ›
A pack of pathetic lap dogs

The loud voice of the sitena,

Machine gun barking enraged me.. |

3.

Every corner is treacherous
Every performance will knock you down.
Your wrong move.

No. t

5+

4

what

a

Whether sooner or later, they will reset
Yours is tied tight.
With a plus bloody flag.
What a caustic pity
3 left for you, cruel one,
Thirsty for cruelty?
Damn, what fatigue!
Everything about the walls is one-sided
‚.: Carry the wounded, the dead.

5.

You longed for the future
Put your namet, -
Fight in the ranks.

7Leave your death
Dare in the fountain gushing
Who's at all posts?

Ut.

When Gagarin's house burned

At Nikitsky's. gate,

Machine guns winked at the conservatory

And the Kremlin trembled from the screams of grenades,

The Tatar rebellion won,

In the red glow a menacing roar
It swept through, destroying foundations, strongholds,

Europe has taken a sharp turn,

The earth opened up, the sky roared

And the stars fell out of God's eye sockets,

And the past is like a stale crust
- bread,

Broke teeth on lead bullets.

Under the brilliance of bloody flashlights

The corpses lay scorched; A
The blinded were hiding alive,

And the elements beat:

About crushed ledges

The steppe winds blew

In the face of Death.

And in countries beyond the mountains and beyond the sea
It seemed that the sun had risen

From the east in the cruel night

And stuck bloody swords

From the time of bygone centuries.

Semyon Rodov.
No. t

dy 18 > 8 = -3

; Outcast.

Melancholy is as brazen as a prostitute...
Can't with a yellow tongue
Dispel the lamp from the eerie dusk,
Accumulated under the ceiling...

Resentments multiply insanely.
The despised man's soul is dark.
Autumn wind of requiem
Sings behind the glass windows.

Hatred of icons has awakened
For a series of ruthless betrayals;
Another mizuta and with a ringing

They will fall from the dark walls.

And they will be on the plank floor
Viciously shred their heels,
So that the heart is not so compressed
A sweet hoop of melancholy.

Hope is forever extinguished, -
The past cannot be brought back...
Heavy, vomitous odor of oil
It leaked from the pulled lamps.

In the corner, a puddle froze like blood...
The line of suffering has been crossed.
Bat beats horror
In the cold frame of the window...

When, like a thief, the dawn steals
Will penetrate the room of melancholy;
Will cover you with an eternal mystery
Death dilated pupils...

V. Alexandrovsky.

2nd

In sch: yes ao dy ava =>

TRAVELER.

Leg warmers covered with gray dust,
A little more and a halt;

No clouds, no rivers, no wind
° Today the traveler did not meet...

Fatigue binds my legs,
My head is filled with lead.
I wish I could fall asleep on the edge of the forest,
GDF sleeps burnt grass...

} But the steppe stubbornly drives the body
{Where the blue sky is

Clothed the vastness with a white haze
. And plunged into debtth dream...

There, where behind the stein's peace
The Giant City prostrates itself,

where 7 The death of others burns with heat
Those who have fallen under the yoke of machines...

and. LH
`. \

“Where there are daily storms,

Where the Struggle spread the banner,
Where from the persistent princess
Fate has become a servant...

- Here is the mound. Having climbed the ridge,

The traveler will arrange a halt
And he will watch how in the sky
The smoky carnival swirls...

Like a city near and far:
Stuck into the heights of the mouth of the pipes; a
And your necks will flush red again,
A smile will touch the folds of your lips...

This is his homeland. Here `soon^
He will be thrown into a hot battle...
Oh, fire-faced, proud city!

You are rich in sacrifices: He is yours...

ort gi
MONNA LISA

| POEM.
\
Dedicated to Nadezhda Pavlovich.

Part

I glorified your heavenly face,
When it appeared as a spark,
When you ascended the storm...

A. Pushkin.

in

Golden shadows from maples
They tremble with a smile,

And choirs of leafy singing.
The autumn garden was watered,

And the strings of cranes ringing
In the fingers of shining crosses,

In the fallen leaves there is the greenery of youth,
Newly sprouting flowers.

um and
th

Here is autumn with a pigeon throat

Coos in the blue hermitage.

The monk's cell is bright

Seemed to be in the Laurel Garden.
Unblemished and feminine
`In the monastery, a smile blossomed.
They shouted clearly and solemnly
Autumn bells.

The sunset burned over the matte forest

And golden domes.

Mona Lisa by agate lake

She floated away in incense smoke,
Floated like a frightened Madonna
She called into the distance of prayer.
Chimes pierced
Evening bells.
12 HORN. No. 1
Filled with dewy tears
The soul under the mantle of the alleys,
Sparkles with golden pines |
Forest iconostasis above it.
The lamp is like a bird caressing your heart
Serebrostruina and. holy
Your smile will never fade
In the autumn clearings of the monastery.

=

Sh.

All my life with the smile of Monna Lisa
I was intoxicated, bewitched,
She shone through in starry robes,
Where the gaze is lifted from the smoke.
She threw from high pipes
Mimosa flaming flowers,
From the windows of many-eyed factories
Currents of beauty flowed.
Manila quietly to the world above the mountains
On the rusty porch,
Coal pomegranate grains
- They sprinkled the meek face.
Monna Lisa's smile bloomed
| s In the furnaces and blazingskah cars,

var And the dove is blue and gray
5 Splashed on the petals of the soul.
= g: Doused in the spring with iron din

Under a blue blouse there is a primrose,

yy. Merpal plant evening temple, :
#- y ; Dressed with a starry smile. t
„. Flowing towards the remaining pipe, month
t _ < The lips touched the steam, ^
and in the dark steel they rang
: Blue lights stozhar.
‚^^ Like a gentle month, it rose_
I'm on the star-spun wing.
a _ And in the bitter burning there came through _- g?
| Her spring face. | E
> . . ‚ _ He will cut with a silver sickle,

And the dawns will sprinkle fresh blood {2

From smiling lips. _

Gi.

The night sky is blue-scarlet, ^;
The Kazan Cathedral slept lightly, ®
How many burning stars have fallen
In the Catherine Canal.
. There are flocks of gold in the mud
The unquenchable ones burn,
Here are wingless seagulls,
Night girls are standing. -®
I wanted...to unite my soul
There in the sparkling depths,
$ Where are the rouged faces
They are crushed in a lifeless wave.

34

ra
th

m and :3

\
And a whisper whispers: “darling, darling”!
The hoarse voice pitifully called—
And a wounded wingless seagull
Slides into a rusty channel.
You are sinless Madonnas to me,
I loved the disadvantaged
At the Alexander Column
The city also nailed you.
How bitter are passionate appeals
And the flap of a broken wing,
When in the fields of the universal cornfield
The dawn of freedom has blossomed.
The night sky is scarlet blue,
The soul is in the arms of beauty,
And you are in the Petrotrad mud
Poisonous yellow flowers.

u.

On the noisy streets of the capital

The lanterns were shaking chilly,

Birds glide from them on the asphalt

And the feathers of the morning dawn.

They hammered with a ringing echo.
Fire granite hooves,

And Monna Lisa secretly laughs
Burned the blue cheeks.

On trembling shoulders,

On pinkish granite

Candles fell from the lanterns

In the frames of golden plates.

_ Facing the spit-stained panel
Drooped into the granite of my prison,
Factory horns sang
Heartfelt Psalms:

Like a current, the siren's call is early

Pierced through the unkind days,

And in the buildings of factory buildings

The iron fires were lit.
Electric flame currents
Her flaming hand.
They are shining again from the high pipes
Mimosa wedding wreaths.

U

All life, all in a bronze tan,
The whole thing is a laughing chorusgadfly,
With the play of invitingly brown eyes
It arrived at our factory.
You were welcome as May
And drunk with your singing,
But here are the cast iron shells
Charged by your hand.
Shafts, belts of buzzing strings
Menacing tunes are sung,
And there are lovers and young
Your grenades hit and hit,

%
a.

No, I don’t think, I don’t believe,
So that you suddenly change,
And to be a servant of the beast
The trembling of these stalked hands.

You, like us, clenching your wings

And your sorrowful eyes,

Powder covered in dust

Their fire turquoise.
Was a flower above the dewy distance,
Sprinkled with steppe dust,
Now - encased in steel
The sad face burns.

Mimosa golden April

You blossomed in the branches of the rafters,

But your petals have decayed

In the iron glow there was a crucible.

U

The pipe is like a grave torch,
It blows immensely into the sky,
But still live through the incense smoke
Golden-eyed beauty of the stars.
On our raised faces
From dust, ash and coals
Through the shining eyelashes
Shed your smiles tenderly.
For a fleeting moment
Take off from the forges to the starry temple...
Machine, stop the buzz!
Let the choir of luminaries listen to us.
And the sky is sadder than the earth,
Attracts and beckons!
What power is there in the distant brilliance,
What an unprecedented magnet!
What strings are in the milky streams,
Which worlds is the winged cry?
The wonderful ringing of eternal symphonies
e to embrace and not to comprehend.
Soot flies off like black rain,
The siren's cry is wild and rude.
Frozen on grave guard
Under the smoky crepe the peaks of pipes
On the shroud of star clusters
A cold corpse lies on the moon,
And like rusty nails,
Hundreds of pipes stuck into the sky.

Sh.

I'm in the clearings of graveyards
Her smile is overshadowed.
Her eyes are sky blue;
Autumn showed through the maple.
And on the edge of the fence
Gold and blue ooze,
Fiery strands flow down
From bloody rowan trees.

*

With battle a" d aevi dd Yen BOU

<
<

t`©-R. ze
Married at dawn of evening
Mona Lisa's face blossomed,
Wreath of roses, wreath of thorns
Raised on a clear brow.
The blue moon floats quietly
On the star-spangled porch,
Milky frost sprinkles with a smile
My sad face.
Autumn tender and innocent
Loved immaculately
The flow of a flock of swan,
Splashing silvertrue wings. -
Warmed by the smile of Monna Lisa
I became enthusiastic and childishly simple.
Dressed the autumn ash tree with a chasuble
A sad graveyard for souls.
[X.
The snowdrop gently basks
In the babbling brook,
The ravine is snowing slightly,
Orange River.
7Kasmin is hotly feminine
The soul is stung
Enthusiastic, solemn
It lit up near the hut.
Eyelashes wet with thirst,
I look at the cranes
How rosy they are
Above the lace fields!
Iron sacrificial plant
I lit the Easter candle,
How the heart desires feminine
To clothe the pipes in flowers.
Unexpected mimosas
I'm burningly illuminated
To a soul lit with roses,
I'll press the iron ringing.
Snowdrop gently snowing
In front of the dream hut.
The ravine is basking in color,
Dew of pearl tears.
Life is born under the snow
{At the rusty cross,
Bliss is reflected
Mona Lisa's lips.

$

Her smile is everywhere, everywhere
was penetrated and exalted,
She bloomed like a miracle

In the trembling of the glowing banners,
7 Kila you are in the glow of the factory,
You sang in the sound of the hammer
And a fiery whirlwind of freedom
The iron hand was lit.
TB E IYA
Electrically fiery and unsteady
It blossomed under a blue blouse.
An undying smile
She brought heaven to earth.

Xx

Frenzied by the steel surf
The workers of the platoons are intoxicated.
Inspired by the splashing of screams
Under the sails of a hundred banners!
The streets churned like fjords,
‚Under the masts of factory chimneys... I

She solemnly and proudly
Flying with a smile of scarlet lips.
Fire comet banners.

r Burnt cities,
And your hands are raised
To the dawn of Ecumenical Labor. ‚

> Mizail Gerasimov.

+ . n 2 | and Yu |

Ze cha IT. 4 On 1. ARENA: Re 4

Acht Che \MasV!!-

(To Orulius).

Kizzap4, Chi BazzeBogep +
(You gave birth to Russia). _
More Episodes Chigsy She! oh Huck,
{In torment and suffering),
”_ a Oskyubeg amzegKogep,
| (Called in October)
Opa 4ez \uag isVЁ ha uegmeen.
5 (And it was inevitable)

th
t

-
.

...Oa Vaso zeBogel
(You gave birth)

At BeShep Tase Ash 4e Eyogazzep
(On a bright day and outside).

Elchep Kashr, 4eg 'yu'zeyogep
(The fight, deathly cold)

Nagme 1apse t ep Sazzep.

| (Lurking in the alleys for a long time).

.. Oi Vaso seBogep
(You gave birth).
_ Oe 1apeeguanee EgasV,
‚ (The long-awaited fruit).
Poszu ga VIieg 4etep Togep
(But outside your gates)

From "Vasve! VasVe!" ses

(They await “revenge! revenge!” with curses).

| From the editor. It was especially pleasant for the editors to place in the first
in the above issue there is a poem by a German worker, a refugee from the East" =
Zeya provinces. Just as the proletariat itself is a class
international, leading the struggle for a better future for humanity in the inter"

° Riae! @e Mag passBe tag!

....Otssch Baz seborep, ...
(You gave birth)
\\!er \me15$ ele 1ane’ez 1eb2? »
(Who knows how long it will last
life")
Map VBM esh Esvo epeg Erogel:
(We hear the echo of screaming

& there are spurs: 2”
„Ez mta?..ch „ez ma ai" 1%
(What are they doing...arranging
conspiracies)

®

Ze shep Nasvep, che sher ueBep,
They curse, they conspire).
Ple eeza ep, uop OBep 401+...
(They, anointed, sitting
y above).

E$ Sh it To4 o4er 1.ebep -
(It's about life or © death)

Pa$. 15 Cash ‚az 156 and y
(It's not 'it's not ah 1
Ash ae \asw g Sepozzet!

(To arms, comrade
Naee Kg ie Chaz ke

(Hold your gun tight!)
Puezep ayep M1zFashep

(This is an old trash heap)
(Nature doesn’t bother me anymore).

national scale, so is its culture, proletarian you ar be

and Lyon.

Nude

y _ - I" ‚ THAN 1 ь 91 У:

s "a >>
; 5. :. in

am G.
t. PS OVYV, #5. 2.nn:.

Grandfather Kostyankin.

The happy do not see their happiness and
looking for and chasing him.

The doomed are jealous, eager for freedom
and light, like those imprisoned in a cage
birds and animals; and, finding no way out,
exacerbating the power of one's thinking, ear-
in themselves.

“And it will always be like this...” said the baker.

nickname Kostya.
° Grandfather Koetyankin was first in the hammer
howl, and in his old age he was baling roofing
iron at the Vyksa plants; knew how
make new and repair old stoves.

_He was short, wonderful

hardworking man, with smart moods

through our eyes, with an eternally dirty, slightly
slightly bald red hair,
knocked down into felt, and the same red, with
gray hair, beard, in which from time to time
lice showed up for a while.

Kostya the sorcerer, as he was called in the ok-
friend, was notpeople, I don’t like talking
beat the news and only answered questions
businesslike, and even after being silent for a minute,
answering with short clarity in passing,
without stopping and turning your head
back to the questioner.

During leisure hours and on holidays
melancholy attacked grandfather Kostyankin, and
go to break up the idle boredom
he didn't like people. Is it only with
out of desperation I sometimes went to the local café
tank, furiously throwing coppers at
kissing stand, where he drank in one gulp

‘a mug with drips of ‘wine, don’t stay too long’

swaying, headed towards the exit, avoiding
and letting them pass by
netters and angrily leering at the nailed

‘shaft a horseshoe.

More often he went away to while away “his holiday”
ness" to the garden, where he endlessly repaired
a perfectly serviceable town made of cha-
hundred, squatting over the ridge
Koi, weeding out shoots in cucumbers, or
thoughtfully walked into the forest, regardless of the
weather, and cleaned the stockade there for ogo-
kind, bringing in the evening on the shoulders of
yellow fagot; or picked mushrooms and
berries.

He was embittered towards people, rejected
ny Kostyankin, sorcerer Kostyankin.

No picket fence, no mushrooms, no berries, for-
grazed by a hardworking old man,
who didn't buy.

“How to buy, since everything is enchanted
Kostyankin, who is beyond reproach with black
Tom says and the devil helps him work
"Take one for three."

And superstitious dark people,
in their darkness, wary; by-
to reach Kostyankin's soul, to warm her
it and to understand its complexity was
there is no time and no one.

*f*

To the church at the Vyksa factories
people go three times a year: on Easter,
for Christmas and Assumption
the day when Magpies pop up on the pier
a fun fair gathers and goes there
people serve prayer services.

In the chronicle of the church of Doschatozheleznice-
of which plant it is said that “on the Oka River,
to the west, there was a pier
Magpies with the Church of the Assumption of God
living Mother. who swam here
safely, without paying duties and without
troubles from priest Magpie, good-
having reached the first village, they served
No. t

prayers given to the Lord God. Pop
Forty from sonswith their own for such
case was exiled to Siberia.”

Now, according to the old custom, people can
will bow down before the icon of the Mother of God in
Stanskaya church. And after the prayer service lako-
drinking honey with Murom white stones
lachami, with which the city of Murom is excellent
is famous and brings them here for the folk festival
holiday.

Grandfather Kostyankin also went to the pier.
But he always went more willingly to the church in

Oschaty on Easter.

as soon as the first bowl gets warm
on the bell tower at bright matins, Ko-
Styankin comes running at midnight to
bonfires burning at the porch of the temple,
looks fearfully at two cast iron
guns cast by Ivan Rodionovich
Batashev for shooting on Easter, co-
where those freed from hopelessness sing
of the labor of the workers “Christ is Risen”,
let the priests read the Gospels
words: “In the beginning was the word... And His light
without knowing...”

to the church, shining with ardent fire
wax, filled with a thick crowd of ra-
barrels joyfully kissing each other,
Grandfather Kostyankin is not included.

little pebble accepting from the pri-
flying mother a worm or a grain,
from mouth to mouth, slams the joy of inop-
with flapping wings, so did Kostyankin
Hitting the coattails of his caftan
kami every time from a cannon
shots are raining down from the church
domes made of frames, broken glass...
after matins with sad eyes
<looks at the women carrying Easter cakes and Easter cakes;
& then disappears unnoticed somewhere.

Grandfather Kostyankiy loves church
headman.

Considers him a conscientious person
com, despite the fact that he, Kostyankin, is a sorcerer
Nome has a reputation.

1st time after Easter Kostyankin
called upon by the headman to repair broken
Church frames and receives from him st-
kan wine and a piece of pie with meat. Without
all sorts of scaffolding, along the rope, the end
Which is tied on a belt, grandfather Kostyan-
kin bravely, like a cat, deftly climbs
repents to any height of the temple and vota-
identifies broken glass, carefully inspects
_Coating them with putty.

And the elder from below, from the church fence,
Shouts up to him:

= Grandfather Kostyankin!.. - hear,
‘

mountains then

what?.. Climb onto the crosses - it hurts
They've been polluted by the jackdaws!..

And grandfather Kostyankin silently climbson the crosses of the temple, scrapes them with his nails and
rubs his apron...

*LJ*
*&

Curious youngsters are everywhere
in a day or two they will visit, all once
They will find out the ins and outs.

Don't forget old things, you'll find out everything
news from the small one.

No one knows where they were
vayut.

They sit throughout the day in nettles and burrs
near grandfather Kostyankin’s garden and that’s it
listen to what he says to the devils and
whom he calls by name.

- “... The soul is a cloud, steam in the air.”
And that is the spirit, that is, the peasant’s order,
correct, firm."

- “Do you understand?” he talks to himself.
Kostyankin. “Not womanish, peasant.”

- “Women, what a worldly gathering, bitches...
scum, poisonous people."

- “The spirit is the driver in the head.
one is strength, and at a meeting, and with women,
always almost drifts away, disappears...“..

- “He will be intimidated by the arrogant upstart...
Before red, before black, before
yellow, before every thief, kill
this...“

- “Even if I’m a sorcerer. A-ah!.. you’re afraid,
Christ sellers! I'm for you bastards
here, I’ll prove it...”

- “The Magi saw Christ, kissed
He, darma, are sorcerers.”

And when Kostyankin sees the guys and
runs after them, then the barefoot freemen,
knocking each other down, so it flows away,
that any trotter with the director will not catch up
sky horse yard.

“You fools!..” the grandfather will say, “on-
Women and drunkards learn to stare. Neither-
what...

But one day he finally came out of ter-
singing grandfather Kostyankin, when barefoot
the team, seeing him on the crosses of the temple,
ran behind the fence to shout:

- Sorcerer!.. Sorcerer! cross yourself!..

This time, grandfather Kostyankin, don’t be
stubborn, but how he went down the rope
from top to bottom, onto the green waistband.

barely had time to blink an eye before
found himself in the very circle of children in
church fence Kostyankin.

he stared with sorrowful eyes #7

di
ma

+

20

distraught
place, guys.
And when he cried and fell on his face
to the ground so that it cannot be heard
crying, then the tomboys are gone.

frozen in fear

On Pokrov, when even old people walk
faith, and shepherds go from house to house
treat themselves to mash and collect a “dacha”
for grazing cattle, grandfather Kostyankin all
dayhaven’t eaten my favorite millet porridge since
pickled lingonberries; didn't touch and
to fatty, tasty milk mushrooms.

Walking tolia all day long
I saw his face in the uncovered glass
for the winter of the small window of his hut.

His dark eyebrows hung like a mustache
were raised, and inquisitive eyes
looked with some special expression
- either with etrakh or with surprise
influence. |

He often rubbed his calloused hand
glass fogged up from breathing and tired

_look at something there, in the distance, where
° in the evening the sun sets behind the mountain.

__At dusk past the foggy glass
Anton and his teammate were the last to pass
Paskom and someone else. Anton played on
horn sad tune “Kavoronochka”,
the shepherd carried a bag of pyro-
gami, recruited from house to house and, spitting,
weeding sunflower seed husks, p. on-
with sweetness, like a squirrel, he worked with his teeth,
chewing sunflowers without paying attention
attention to the Kostyankin window.

An unknown passerby, behind them,
looking at the glass, where it’s like from a portrait
Kostyankin looked and cried out: .

- Crazy!.. Bats on the forehead Bone-
ki-sorcerer... Evil spirit...

Grandfather Kostyankin sat down so that there would be no
you can see him in the window, and frowned gloomily
his thick old eyebrows, grumbling
with irritation:

- Ugh!.. damned fools...

Not at all. It was getting light.

Stretched along the crimson sunset
clouds, like two drops similar to narrow
ribbons used to swaddle babies.

Grandfather Kostyankin felt a trembling in his body
and climbed, sighing, onto the stove under the sheepskin
new sheepskin coat.

Under the cover of darkness, more than two gnawed
sadness of the soul: old man. Is it because
he didn't get emaciated, or the veins failed

r t

B) about t

get tired, maybe because Hamra attacked
towards night, but I couldn’t sleep.

Kostyankin wrapped his head up; lo-
lived both on his stomach and on his back,
and tried to forget myself on my sides, no, and
no sleep; at least poke out your eyes...

And the grandfather began to think out loud, interrupting everything -
fight in your mind.

- Strong chest and powerful arms...
Young curls... In smoke and fumes. Rumors
shush, blows?.. Blow after blow of the hammer-
the fighters are carrying, the steel-metal is red-hot.
LOW,

- God is the beginning, and man is the end, Eli
wouldn'tPeter believed, I wouldn’t go without measuring...

- I wish I could work, you English mug, how
in my youth, three hundred poods a day -
Kostyankin scolded himself for his lack of sleep,—
I suppose he would have eaten and fallen asleep; and you don't care
what... On what the sun, God was shining and
it works; and you, stupid fool, are useless -
nary bug.

*
\%

From the Intercession, grandfather Kostyankin became a
sick and sad.

and the fifth week of Lent before Easter
he didn't leave the stove for days and
got off the bread.

He will crawl like a cockroach from the stove to drink
cold leaven, it will shake a little and
silently hiding again under the sheepskin coat on
side. yy

What happened to grandfather Kostyankin?

What a miracle: he stopped talking completely
something...

— He lies silently with his eyes closed.
Ask - he gets angry... You don’t want to
complain, tough old fellow. Isn't it
call Graphena. Let him read over
sick - this is how the old statute reasoned -
girl }

They called Graphena.

Graphena is an ascetic, strict beauty
honeycomb, with silky brown hair behind
belt covered with black and gold
border, scarf, in festive blue
sundress, with white boiled sleeves
and rosary in marvelously beautiful hands.

The voice is silvery and slender, harmonious
personal, sincere speech, simple and strong
naya, healed and lulled doubts,
bitterness and anxiety of the soul.

Grafeva was a sorceress, not a girl.

And she didn’t get married.

“There’s a lot of harvest,” she said when
the suitors wooed: - there is a lot of harvest, but sowing -
there are few bodies."

- “We must sow. We must serve the people.”
in the name of Eternal Love, for the sake of God -
his affairs."

Graphena was literate. Knew on-
memorize twelve selected psalms
David.

Oh, whoever knows them is not afraid of
no devils, no sorcerers, no
beast. She went on Easter night
alone in the cemetery hrieto-
meddle with the dead.

s I went with her once and Gavrilka’s nephews
IR.

And I've seen enough.

- “It was she who came in from the eastern hundred.

Rona to the Old Believer cemetery, approached
to the graves, where together with Christians
and the murderers are put away,” the guy said
Gavrilka.

- “I lit the censer with my palm,
straightened up like a soldier, - chest forward-
ed., proudly raised hertin, and, sparkling
blue eyes, holding in his left hand
censer with lit candles, re-
I was baptized three times, but when I shouted:

- “Chrietos is Risen from the Dead.”

It seemed to Gavrilka that there was something in the ground
there was a rumble that all the dead answered
Graphene with the same joyful greetings; a
on the hills of graves blue flames glowed
OtoNYBKI...

He doesn't remember anything further. And on
legs that someone was clinging to and
prevented him from running; and on all fours, like
the little kitten is blind, and head over heels, as if in a storm,
it was carried away by a whirlwind wind from the cemetery.

And Graphena remained there to pray for
parents.

#*

#

Graphena quietly entered the hut of grandfather Ko-
Styankina, prayed to the copper icons,
lit a honey candle from her
labor and, moving his sable eyebrow
To the side where the sick grandfather lay,
began to read psalms. '

When the bell tower rang halfway through

night, Graphena finished singing sixty per-
psalm:
_ - “as the power of God and Yours, State-
come on, mercy. For You have rewarded everyone
according to his business. If you see the evil ones in
stiff-necked malice, but you speak
sim“..,

Before the girl had time to finish,
looked back at grandfather Kostyankin, who
horn rose to the throat and tears profusely

9.

BURN. 2

flowed from the eyes. He is leaning on
his right hand tried to go down the stove,

Grandfather, you can't bear it...
I can't get off the strength... you're crying
heartfelt...

- Aah!.. Lord have mercy.. shouted
Graphene and rushed to her grandfather, clutching
his white |uki.—Nutko, breaking like,
unfortunate... .

Grandfather Kostyankin fell down from the stove
fishing, exactly like the guys doing somersaults
They walk on the hot sand in summer.

And she laid grandfather Kostyankin on the shi-
rocky bench, covered the head of the cap-
wait, I put a bag of go-
hot ash and wrapped him in a sheepskin coat.

Grandfather regained consciousness and asked
drink and spoke in a weak voice.

- I took my soul to myself, piece by piece -
you pull... my heart doesn't hurt anymore,
I have it. You are a real doctor
Grushka; for nothing that the nation is a woman...

- Apparently you've suffered enough in life?..
said Graphena, “pray, patient one,
God; cry to God for help; screamlike
be able to do as your heart tells you.

God is everywhere. We breathe and warm ourselves with it. He
carries us across the earth, feeds us, gives us water and
takes care of us all our lives, like
about your beloved children. And we’ll get tired of living
If the bodily strength wears out, so does the angel.
will send to the mournful bed to take for himself
peace.

Here you are crying again, my dear...

Nothing... It will be easier.

— My spirit is trembling, I can’t bear it
“I’m sorry,” Grandfather Kostyan once moaned,
kin, - explain, Grushka: why were they hushed up?
rika. Cursed... Sorcerer, they say, curse-
you... without prayers, that means in a hole, like
dead dog.

- Don’t worry about it, grandpa. Glu-
Pym the law is not written. Pray and be silent.
They'll fall behind...

- Who should I pray to? You're a fool, al
no. He begged and bowed to the greased lordly
boots to the Englishman Mezeka: take it, bye,
at least a watchman; serve doggy style
I will... have mercy, breadwinner.

- All my life I put in the factory, I put in the effort
your...

But he didn’t even bat an eye. I drove it away, I can-
scammer: |

- Go to hell, damn it.

- Forget it, grandpa. b

- Read this girl about how
God will shoot them for all the insults. For-
keep the cinder warm... 7

22 E Es I.

- Read it. 1

Managers with the patient, Graphena
started reading psalms.

The sounds of her voice sweetened the soul and
warmed the body of the unfortunate grandfather Kostyankin.

His days were at sunset.

And he now called for their demise, for
return to old times lived
I was afraid of him.

Grandfather fell into a sweet sleep to the sounds
psalmist Grathena.

The roosters crowed before dawn.

The girl took a deep breath and,
Having been baptized, she went to bed, deciding in her mind
do not leave a sick old man.

Grandfather Kostyankin's hut
windows to the garden and vegetable garden.

Kostyankin tried it in his youth
plant fruit trees in the garden;
but someone always snatched everything to someone else
the same day and destroyed the plantings.

Morning and evening the sun sent
grandfather your warm rays. In the spring, infusion-
fled from someone else's blooming garden into his
the hut streams of May fragrance and, until
Peter's day, everyone could hear from there
bird noise. At night I work hard
Nightingales were flying.

“What kind of restless villains are these?”
Kostyankin used to grumble amongeyes

- Song after song pours out tirelessly
and they crack and whistle like robbers...
And another sarysh will sing in the choir at
the whole company sobbing like crazy
descended. What kind of rook singers are they?
crows... All their songs are from one
only words: gaaa, taaa... listen,
only sadness... The noise from them is like in the same
ironworks, where as hefty. Cree-
the coons are here... singing!..

Graphene has been in charge for the entire 9th week
I lived with my grandfather Kostyankin. Dug up in
garden beds and planted everything in them
necessary for an old man. And in front of the windows
shacks decreed for hops and 00-
bov-poles.

- Christ will pay you, Grushka, for
that's it... said Kostyankin, having examined his
kind after the work of Graphena, - not nara-
I’m sulking... I’ve never seen or heard of it.
so that there are people like this on white
light. Shimoryanka—in a word. ^

The girl smiled sadly at these
words and said to the old man:

- To your health; use it for glory
God's Live without worry. Live like birds
heavenly; they do not sow, they do not reap; and son-
you are; Since it’s unbearable

looked

No. t

no, punish; I'll come again. Goodbye
grandfather Kostyankin.

*

Graphene is gone.

Grandfather remembered her every minute. Vepo-
I took in her words and thought and thought...

Loneliness again warmed up in him
mental lights in the brain.

And he spoke to himself about himself;
0 your soul's secret places.

- I’ll wash for seven weeks,., Ask
I won't go.

- The birds collect what God sends;
and nothing - they die...

- Peas for them. Bookbinders are afraid -
I was scared, and the sparrows?.. they don’t care;
sniffing and dragging the rascals... No-
lock them up!

- The mystery of life is ignited by love;
V. love and must burn.

- What a cat, a bad mouser...
the bad one will climb into the bird's nest
steal a chick; grab him!.. and go
was, impudent, ran away; but that was not the case:
the mother of the chick jumped on her back, the cat should
beats the head, beats with weak wings...
and bleeds, saving herself dies.

— A free bird burns in love...

- Grushka too... Also like an angel...

4. "

On the feast of Murom Peter and Fe-
from afar, a man makes his way on foot
family, on the way they come in and ask for pit.

° Kostyankin takes it to his well
bucket on a rope and ladle.

“Whoever needs it, he’ll drink it himself,” he says.
grandfather

And he would go to Muromskaya Yar-
brand sbiten honey drink, ruddy
feast on rolls and look at how
Mordovians pray and are healed by faith from
various ailments at the relics of Peter and Feb-
ronii.

People walk to Murom at night
the new chill and the dewy grass.
Walking barefoot, as the saint loved to walk
Fevronia the princess; and in the afternoon from the heat -
crawls on soft moss in the cool of the forest.

And whoever doesn’t visit Murom-
skaya fair? who will not go to the Oka
look at the three-hundred-year-old Cosmodem-
Yana", resting in that very place,
where Ivan the Terrible transported Russian
army across the river, going to take Ka-
Zan kingdom.

og. No.

— Murom merchants love Koemo-
Demyana,” says a Mordovian passerby.

“He was without money; so let him live
"vet in poverty" ... as if they were making a joke like that
stingy traders.

After the pilgrimage everyone goes to the fair.

Govars are taken from merchants from battle. Dust
hovering over the people like a cloud. Songs,
harmonicas, balalaikas, pipes and rattles
children; the ringing is worth the money... wow! you are Rus'
dear, mighty, strength - a penny of the people -
Naya!..

But this time Grandfather Kostyankin
There was not a penny at the Murom fair.

The old man's supplies were low. Everything has been verified
Tivelo to Kostyankin and the day left his
huts

Out of old friendship, he wandered to the church
to visit the warden about the account
work.

* *

“The old man had become rather weak... he was leaving.”
And he's still brave. Must be ho-
even to earn money for the Murom fair,
Yes, go from idleness, perhaps in
one last time, take a look at the Mordovians and
Kosmodemyan in Murom, said the old man
growth.

- 0It really hurts on the crosses -
shat... - I would fly away, bayit, into the blue sky,
if only the wings...

- An eagle, not an old man, Grandfather Koetyankin.

- But still, life is a villain and a spirit...
Bam doesn’t give a hundred-year-old descent.

- Get out, cordial, quickly.

However, no matter how hard the headman tried,
Kostyankina speaks from traveling to
the dome of the temple, no matter how he treated him, and
neg gave to the Murom fair, no:
didn't give inI'm a persuader. He sensed
this time in myself the last strength and
I climbed the dome for a long time... I hugged tightly
to which he is a church cross.

The church elder shouted for a long, long time
shouted up to him.

- Grandfather Kostyankin...
or no...

- Uh... And... why are you chilling, come on
let's go home...

But Kostyankin doesn’t even listen.

Silent... hugged the cross with frozen hands

listen please,

RN.

and looks, throwing his head back, at the clear sun
clear sky.

*

- Grandfather Kostyankin is silent... it should
“My heart might be sinking...,” he said
headman, bending over someone who fell from the roof
old man.

They sent for Graphena.

Before the death, the grandfather regained consciousness.

For a few moments he looked around majestically,
a wave of people standing around from head to toe
looking for his people with burning eyes
someone: that. -

And having found Grafeva, weakly, in first
or for the last time in my life
smiled.

- I’m ending, birdie Grusha... please-
he cried.

- Read it! The soul will melt, merge
with light...

- Take it and
hands...

And helpless calluses fell on my chest -
old hands of old Kostyankiv.

Eyes closed.

The installer wove from linen and inserted
lived in the walking hands of the deceased le-
stocking; the head was decorated with paper
prayer with a whisk; the body was fumigated by Lada:
nom and put it under the icon.

- ... Like the melted wax will be taken away; fall
fire on them and not seeing the sun, - heard-
shawl at dawn' silver naked Gra-
Fen, singing psalms over Kostyankin.

There was peaceful silence all around.

‚ Migratory birds waking up early
before the sun, in front of the open window of the hut-
they fed carelessly on green peas,
the deceased old man hung by him.

Somewhere in the village of Mironovka, in the forest,
two or three shots rang out from the hunter
wild drakes; yes there, in the distance beyond the
house, sighed loudly with its fiery chest
factory...

And the alarm clocks are old men, bent over
from old age into an arc, relying on his
staff, walked alone along the quiet streets-
tsam and you were under the window of the housewife
sons-in-law preserved from the time of Batash-
out call:
- Bin, get up and work!

bury me with yours

Alexander Luch.

m i
RN.

Oh

S. T. Konenkov.

Stenka Razin.
The path of propetarian culture
and culturebourgeois.

The path of proletarian culture is bright and clear
emerged in the final stage of its development
‚Pitalistic system. According to K.
Marx "in the depths of bourgeois society
productive forces create at the same time
and material conditions for permitting an-
_ Tagonism" between those descending from the public
arenas by the bourgeois class and those entering
na, her claesom proletarekim. This way
zom proletariat in the construction of a cultural system
tours, the starting point should be those areas
great outlines, which clearly shaped
were in the industrial system of the last
imperialist period. This pernod
- in the financial field it is characterized by an
poverty, where groups of bourgeois
nance kings are distributed among the environment, according to
a strictly thought-out plan, where ro eeaya
investors, no matter how they are ‚ not
can dispose of their talents.
They are forced to obey and carry out”
mechanical precision of pre-drawing,
dictated by general financial considerations
in charge and ‘thus lose already in
to a significant extent.
In the field of technical industry, develop:
is heading in the same direction. Personal din-
initiative ‘loses its former meaning. Iso-
creation and organizing development of Samyu Tokh-
nicknames are transferred to the laboratory, to the bureau
research, where, with strict consideration of the collective

nogo and. unknown experience, invention 2.

area of happy personal random-

they move into a systematic plan-

but the conscious work of the team. In the

management of enterprises personally" - discretion

also thinner, the master's eye of the artisan
1

continues to live only in backward small-scale
bourgeois production, and in advanced
the management system is developing towards
anonymity and automail, dictated
or the tasks of the enterprise or the whole
s enterprises.
to chart a clear and distinct path
their culture, the working class should not
overlook another consideration:
productive forces of capitalist
societies hatch from bourgeois-ideo-
logical shell. Although the receivers
productionhappiness in our country, fortunately,
we are labeled as workers, however, we should not.
It’s important to forget that ideology has a conservative place
vative character, too viscous
quality Without peaceful and conscious intervention
‘teletva © ‘our side, she will pro-
dolikal tsetiso hold ours in their hundreds
psychology and habits.
`We painted a picture of only the top
floors are produced, and at the same time the
Life is still huddled in the lower floors, -—
there are still remnants of production methods
stva; feudal-serfdom and small-
bourgeois, and lives with him and his
their corresponding ideology. And this redirection
the melting multi-storey ideology is entangled -
attacks the working class on all sides. NFobho-
Dima makes enormous conscious efforts to
I finally broke up with them.
In the specific execution of missions’ flight-
Riata we continue in many, many ways
use old tricks. Is it ours?
practical implementation of the dictatorship of Iran
ata is carried out in full connection and
in direct accordance with the outline line

4

®

Q: .

No. t

26
and then the new industrial slusob
is it producing? We think a thousand times
no. Most of our techniques are this
concrete execution carry in themselves direct-
my handicraft imprint is artisanal -
va. Bushcraft entered us as a pro-
damned legacy of the old regime and this
obsolete ideologies. We still have
personal discretion may be in force,
zalaberschina, work for your saltyk. Introducing
into life the socialist system, we will implement
we celebrate it using outdated techniques,
not only not corresponding to socialist
checheskogo system, in and not corresponding
industrially developed - bourgeois
I'm building. ‹

To many aspects of life proletarian
I still have time to install my own. relationships.
And now, when a colossal event occurs,
naya world breakdown, of all relationships, pro-
Tariat must develop its own view, you
work the plan and feel like embracing everyone
areas that have not yet been covered
influence

But this is how my whole life has been so far
entangled in an endless networkurjoise and
feudal forms included in all eras
the public infected with this bacillus
and the blood of the proletariat itself, before the worker
class has one task: how eco-
finish it with the least amount of effort
with old remnants. Moreover,
of the proletariat, there is an already untried society,
which he must use in creating
knowledge of one’s culture is a conscious plan
iomeric organization. Just like a sample
system—it has a folding seat
guide your daughter.

To concretize the tasks of the proletarian
cultural culture, we must somewhat just-
update on the role of ideology, how to organize
general factor.

Ideology has two properties: positive
positive and negative. The first is the growth
zhaeteya in ortanizing ability: howl

in expedient-logical
orderly order. Ideology is the outline,
but which houses the technical information and
the malerial part of the actions and for-
reputed cultural products. Ideology,
expressed in art, nothing more, nothing
menyn, as a template by which you can
organize my life. These are countless
models of life that ‘teach and show
there are general directions of the path. At the same time not
you need to forget that any ideological
form, scientific or figurative, is not accurate
This is the end of life, this is only the basic concept

ER IRR ZTN Ai K

these paths. The positive nature of the idea
logic is that it crystallizes, unites
This is the experience of humanity! and thereby accepted-
known as scattered and fruitlessly lost
him, as it happens in spontaneous unconsciousness
knowledgeable life, the experience of which is enormous
A certain amount is wasted in vain. So
how ideology serves as a guide and
starting point for moving forward, not
allowing you to repeat what a person has already covered
the path of eternity.

The negative nature of ideology is that
that she is conservative makes her delay
humanity will live on its path for a long time
more than necessary. This model, served
living today as a starting point, tomorrow
enriched with new content and such
way in the process of active action
must be appropriateway of expanding
scramble to capture no-
experience, But ideology is not so elastic
ha, new content usually explodes it
appears, and even in torn form it
tenaciously continues to hold onto material co-
holding. Therefore, new ideologies are needed
logical forms to organize the experience
according to the content.

Thus, the bullet builder is planned
tsva, proletarian culture. Shape ve oh-
are divided into the sample method that produces
property, which is already becoming obsolete
general imperialist bourgeois stros;
‹10the organization’s own personality is determined by a small
rial production method! and cool
important position of the proletariat.

The ideologue gives organizing properties
opportunity to separate and collect

measured development of culture and protecting
humanity from unnecessary waste of energy
to repeat the path already taken, pre-
prevents him from opening it again
open America.

The proletarian takes from the old culture
only materials and samples, organizing them
in its own way agreed and in accordance
vii with its class nature and that transition
speculative development of the ideal towards which
he strives. The remains of the old culture give
the opportunity to understand the soul of extinct classes
and thereby again protect against new
appreciation of what has already been passed, and give rewards

we
No. t

opportunity for the proletariat to understand more deeply its
present situation.

At the moment, the dictatorship is flying-
rial in our country in the construction of cultural
tours of the working class are planned in two ways
soba, same way, two ways
achieving one and My eke goal. Soviet
The Workers' Government is building a new culture
tour in the State, - and thereby for-
_lays the foundation in the world massigga-
be. It seems to be processing a gigantic
mountain, trying to destroy the socialist
form. On this path Sovetek Ruler
resistance, meets with enormous resistance.
Malerial of this gigantic mountain, being not
homogeneous, does not have sufficient viscosity
property, with which the inevitable
scree. The Soviet government comes-
to wage the class struggle. In addition to consciousness
bodily and unconscious resistance
from the side of classes and groups hostile to him,
it can't find enough either
number of people who from top to bottom
could carry out the social
listic program sequentially until
end. This is a condition of social struggle
inevitably leads to deviations, regardless of
conscious will inhibits the development of social
stylistic construction and opens up the stylistic
chemical factors have the opportunity to break into
a harmonious plan, in a strict socialist
system. In order to make it easier for us to work
Irestyan government cultural-
socialist construction, flew-
el, as the most conscious and dis-
ciquininated, should create a type of ra-
bots of the laboratory-studio, and there
opportunity isolated the proletariat from the
incoming bourgeois influences and such
equal, created the most organized and
‚ conscious conditions for the manifestation of yours] -
_ human forces of the working class.

Near that giant mountain that 00-
The Soviet government is working hard,
giving it a socialist form, working
my class, taking the most in this work
active participation - along with this, as it were
at the foot of this mountain, sculpting a model form
from such a viscous material, like a proletarian
at, the most capable in his general
vein-class position - realized
ideas of socialist culture and = That form
The ma-model should serve as a model, according to
it is easier for the one to level out the gigantic mountain
Workers' and Peasants' Party.

The path of bourgeois culture at the dawn of
birth had some similarities with that 5o-
which is currently experiencing pro-

to

BURN. | | you.

letariat Ideology of the bourgeoisie sing votup-
entry into the public arena when she
rela, the struggle for dominance is becoming obsolete
feudalism, was based on realism
consciousness. “Being at first forms of development
tiya - says K. Marche - for these productions
long-term forces, property relations
become their fetters. But that was in the first place
ode to youth burghUazia, when she needed it
defend their place and dominant position
position before the feudal decrepit

nobility, which she replaced
dila. When did she outlive her youth,

maturity and velucila during the senile period,
the logic of social development has placed the EU
facing the prospect of inevitable death. Pe-

under the onslaught of growing, multi-forces and co-
pissal power of a young prolelar
class, numerous in number and
fearless according to conscious logical
Depths resting on pa. strict and
inexorable law of social development.
- the bourgeoisie was mortally afraid and this
danger forced her to close her chapter,
artificially create mysterious and incomprehensible
mystical theories, understandable to her, that-
would create the illusion of distance from the advancing
then the hour of his master’s catastrophe. This
condition forced bourgeois ideologists
consciously and unconsciously create all
what kind of theories that undermined the strength
consciousness. They declared reason to be untenable -
nim, everything that had been prepared and incomprehensible fell into
their ideology. On this basis, mi-
stical theories, philosophies of intuitionism,
futuristic denial of history and historical
a radically formed human experience
—5с6, except for the developing power of consciousness.
This ideology determined the development of indi-
visualistic culture. '

A completely opposite position is taken by
et 'proletariat. All his development power is
rests on the growing power of consciousness, i.e.
on a correct in-depth understanding of the use
toric process, much more organic
consciousness and disciplined consciousness
NI. The social society is pre-
is organized as ideally perfect
ity and discipline, which means
the deepest conscious network. Tol-
but in this sense we can understand Eyagelsl,
when he said that, when moving to social
listical system “from the kingdom, it is necessary-
sti we will take the leap into the kingdom. freedom."
Under socialism, the expanding power co-
knowledge will reach maximum power. Power
disorganized, disorganizedvanvosti, thai
gradually there will be carrion and destruction,

#.
28 GORN.

their ‘place to be taken by the growing power of consciousness
niya, which means the kingdom of freedom. Slavery
people in front of the elements of nature gradually
will lose his dependence, and slavery
before the elements of social forms have already complied
this will come to an end.

Bourgeois ideological-spiritual culture
the tour degenerates towards spontaneity,
and. primitive instinct - in this way
well, an individual fluke.

Proletarian culture is determined by ma-

No. t

terial basis created from the depths of the drill-
zhuaz capitalist society, which
which creates conditions for the development of cultural
ry of the proletariat, towards a collective no-
known discipline, harmony and organization
lowness. For personal arbitrariness and us-
there will be no place for today, - activity
people will be led. not faces, but logic
systems and their internal meaning.

F. I. Kalinin.

BreneneeAANI. ^^ edema gee B |
First All-Russian Conference of HDroleshkulshov.

Below, comrade readers will find a resolution
qing adopted at the said conference,
tg material, which was created as a result
tate of collective labor of those who came from
throughout `Rossin representatives of the proletarian
cultural. cells. Our task is
in order to further clarify this
seekers. We want to give a few
general comments, convey to some
the extent of our impressions that we express
Neily © conferences.

“We’re making noise, brother, we’re making noise,” exclaims Ro-
Netilov, talking about his “political
skoy" activity, And this desire to joke-
to create a “boom”, as the French say,
especially characteristic of the bourgeoisie and bourgeois-
no intelligentsia. Remember how often
our Russian bourgeois newspapers use
damned to the occasion and not to the occasion the word
"non-toric". And somehow this way
an insignificant statement from an insignificant politician
the world thundered. And the first thing’ bro-
stuck in the eyes of our conference ---
This is a thoughtful, serious atmosphere of the congress.
It was felt that loud phrases, half-
chetical itum is sovereignly aliento those gathered.

Those gathered were faced with questions through
of utmost importance. It was necessary to outline
and understand the ways of our work. Here in the
Irose “what to do” and “everyone did” for many
Torarish, especially from the remote provinces,
there was no clarity. And in the very first speech-
I was constantly aware of this lack of clarity.

Therefore, at the first meetings in speeches
many speakers were noticed and geological
heavenly confusion. This had a particularly pronounced effect
in many puzzling questions about
sharing tasks with the Commissariat. But
a little collective work did it
I divide, and by the end of the proceedings of the congress the same

comrades who previously disapproved
smart questions, in speeches and statements
something new sounded. A new world opened before them.
area: class collective
creativity. And I regret it from this point of view
conference and it was unusually remote
but... We kept talking about collective
there is a lot of work to do but create your own path
Tara culture, and our conference
This is clear evidence of this.

Summarizing the questions and tasks, we could say
put it this way: for the first time the question of the essence and
tasks of proletarian culture and ways
it was popularly put in place to create it.
With excitement, quite understandable, ° the first
theorists of this type of labor movement,
brought out for a friendly discussion
your views and opinions. And it was so joyful
see and feel that the stave has grown in
right, judging by the attention © co-
listened to, and most importantly, discussed
all reports. It is necessary to ‘identify the rednecks, repeat-
I eat, Nehi that way. according to which
tu p itti in his creative

many questions naturally transform
‘li na, the first in the world like her
qi. In discussing them and in unity
voting felt › vn
spike, all the more attentive because there are no
preliminary agreements between participating-.
this. whitewashed during the trip, no
it was. _ eh = it’s quite suitable here
repaired according to

instinct, about Akirosa

ry of the intelligentsia was also reflected in the fact that
the work was purely business in nature and
No quarrelsome questions were raised.
And why was it necessary to install them, if toonfe-
the race passed the ideological predominance
Bolynevism (providers of other political
ical opinions were presented in
a significant minority, and they themselves were
built in a purely business manner). Hegemony
Bolshevism was worn by a genuine proletarian
Chinese character, undistorted by grimace
`lilycanism. {
The conference was held in the hall
with the passages of Marx, Lenin,
Liebknecht and Lunachaosky. Everything’ is ideas-
new banners, names that oblige.
The congress sent greetings to Comrade Lenin, and
the call of the latter! to\workers, take into your work-
bare hands the entire mechanism of the state
ship, was the best official answer-
that the more Bolshevik intellectuals
where there are constant obstacles
the work of the proletarian Bolshevik cultural

No. kra Sean
Wilhelm

tour organizations that do not want to go
under the yoke of the intelligentsia. | |
Kon passed under the sign of id-

struggle for self-liberation from the bourgeoisie
casual science and ideology. And scheduled
there were ways of this liberation.

"I'm obligated to pull down. I'll use my strength
showed us that the task is understood, that it is possible
it has already gathered lusciously under the red. know
My name is Ppoletkult. We not only can, we
n must! Here's another thing that happened in the...
the languor of many comrades. That's why it was
stated requirement for maximum staffing
zheniya from those who are stupefied ‘into our partnership,
And we cannot mention one thing here,
extremely interesting moment. When discussing
‘research report on the Pooletarsky University,
‘comrade workers demanded the dexterity of the sign
tion from applicants. And those demanded it
the same comrades, ‘who also rule-
but also persistently insisted on complete rejection
less such distortion of revenues in

——©5.

th

r t 29

public higher school. YES this and
It’s clear that we have requirements for
TO YOUR comrades, knowing that there will be a check

established by us ourselves in the interests of our
our proletarian evil, and the state
the school is still in the hands of our class-
owl enemies who will specialize this
new belief in not letting Prolet-
rial to mastery of the apparatus of knowledge. This is somethingthe difference in approach shows that
letkult ‘is already the dawn of a new creative
cultural life of the socialist general
stva. What is in it even today, in the same hour
world ‘beginning civil war’
we, ‘creative attempts are boiling and seething
great class. And one more thing. Even ours
class enemies can no longer help
recognize that Soviet Russia is for cultural
tour construction does more than
whoever it is, and what-at-the-head’ of this
work is carried out by people who are accustomed to constant work
work: A new approach to work, work
universal, sounds’ in all songs that
These are being heard in our ranks. But only
class intolerance and class intolerance
cleanliness, in the context of the composition will save nae. from
about other motives in our penalties.

S-ride. closed to the powerful sounds of Inter-
national And it was clear to those who turned
understanding that their collective work
house, more new stones have been laid for organi-
nization of socialism, and that these Russians
stones are used by both our Western and
cruel comrades, when, fucking shackles
their ‘oppressors, they will come in orderly ranks-
mi to our common international for-
ke and vesolo will take part together © we pro-
owe our common work. | with
Art. Krivtsov..

"Zo

First All-Russian Conference of Proletarian Cultural-
educational organizations.

Letter from Comrade Lenin to the presidium of the conference
tions of proletarian cultural - enlightenment
private organizations.

Dear comrades! Thank you from the bottom of my heart
you for your kind wishes and in my opinion
Ged I wish you the best successes in Va-
our works.

One of the main conditions for the victory of social
of the communist revolution is the assimilation of ra-
Bochim class and. bringing into life

G F

state child! this claes for the duration of the transition
from capitalism to socialism. Gospodetevo.
vangarla of all workers and eksploali-
those who are being cared for, i.e. the proletariat, must be
this is a transitional time for complete destruction" -
classes, to suppress coexistence
niya exploitation ov, for combining all
the masses of workers and exploited,
beaten, crushed, sprayed stone -
lism around urban workers in tezher-
together with them. | `mn en

for-
_ her class energy,

Zo GORN.

Our successes are more due to the fact that
the workers realized this and took control
the state, through its councils.

But the workers have not yet understood this enough
and are often overly timid in action
promoting workers to manage the State
gift.

Take care of this, comrades! Let it pass
Tara cult.-enlightenment organizations will help
this. This is the key to further success and
final victory of the socialist re-
volutsi. |

Greetings. }
V. Ulyanov (Lenin).

CONFERENCE RESOLUTIONS.

General resolution.

”(Proposed by Comrade I.I. “Lebedev-
Polyanekim).

‚ First All-Russian Conference of Pro-
Letarian Zhulturno-Esvetitolny Or-
organizations, indicating: | )

1) that the Cultural and Educational Movement

‚life among the proletariat must take

independent place nearby. with political
I'm an economic movement;

2) that its task is to develop,
Proletarian Culture, which, with the destruction
the existence of class divisions in society,
will become universal 9 and ‚8

that construction is eh but.
Ro be based on public
labor and comradely cooperation;

believes:

1) In order to achieve the goal
dacha proletarian` must comprehend all the achievements
knowledge of the previous culture, learn from
it is all that it bears on itself (print. general

2) he must accept all these conditions
critically and rework in your own journal
Claes consciousness; |

_3) Proletarian Culture must wear
character of revolutionary socialism, so that
the proletariat could arm itself with new knowledge
tion, organize your feelings in
the essence of new art! and convert
your everyday relationships in a new spirit,
truthis-prodetarek, i.e. colloctivieti-
eskom, y y

4) in the matter of construction, a new culture,
the proletarian must show his maximum
and G his amateur-
ity, also taking advantage of the help of the revolution-

_№1

tion-socialist
because it is possible
5) laying the foundation of a new form
labor movement "Proletkultov", from.
turning them onorganizational independence
so that the entire volume can be expanded
to embrace the arrogant class proletarian creativity
Honestly, the Conference believes that the psudar-
national institutions, central and local
tions, must contribute by all means -
to a new movement in order to strengthen
drink the gains of the Proletarian Revolution,
to defeat the bourgeoisie, not only the ma-
materially, but also spiritually, so that
erect a new building of the future social
stic society. |

Adopted unanimously with 5 abstentions
shiheya.

intelligentsia,

Science and the working class. .
(Resolution proposed by A. Bogdanov).

First All-Russian Conference of Pro-
Letarian cultural and educational orgs:
Talizations, considering science as a tool
organization of social labor, which
swarm of the ruling classes
until now it has also been an instrument of domination,
but in the hands of the working class” should serve
‘to live as an instrument of his social struggle, according to
troubles and construction, recognizes the main one.
task In the scientific field of socialization
science, 1.-e. firstly, syslemal pe- |
review of scientific material © collectively.
labor point of view; secondly, his si-
stemal position in relation to
conditions and needs of the proletarian rl-
bots, both everyday and revolutionary
onnoy; Thirdly, the mass dissemination
scientific knowledge has been transformed in such a way
vanvum ‘Vide. s

The conference believes that the main legal |
ganizational associations for such a
the centralization of science should appear: from

1) Creation of the Workers' University, in
form of an integral system of cultural-prove-
technical institutions, built on the
comradely cooperation between teachers and students
ongoing, and consistently leading
Taria yu perfect scientific
new methods and highest achievements
science. | }

2) Based on the activities of the Working Uni-
university, production of the Working Encyclopedia
diya, slender brought to the greatest
simplicity and clarity of presentation of methods and

achievements of science with proletarian point
vision. chi

Adopted unanimously with 7 abstentions
shiheI.

The proletariat and art.
(Resolution proposed by A. Bogdanov).

1) Art organizes through life
new ‘images’ social experience is not only
in the sphere of cognition, but also in the sphere of feeling
words and aspirations. The great child of this onog—
the organization's most powerful weapon
collective forces, in a class society—
class forces.

2) The proletariat to organize its own
forces in social work, struggle and construction
Telsa needs its own class art
quality The spirit of this art is labor
selectivism: it perceives and reflects

world, © the point of view of the labor collective.

for, expresses the connection of his soul, his battle
howl and creative will. at

3) Treasures, old art not to,
we must be accepted passively: then we will
would nourish the working class in the spirit of cultural
tours of the ruling classes, and thus
we are in the spirit of submission to what they created
building a life. Treasures of the old - art
‘lva proletarian’ must take in his
critical coverage, in its new use
interpretation that reveals their hidden
lexical foundations and their organizational
meaning. Then they will appear as precious
a trail for the proletariat, a weapon in its
fight against the same old world"
‘who created them, and an instrument in the dispensations of the
of the world. The transfer of this art
proletarian heritage must be fulfilled
skaya criticism.

4) All organizations, all institutions,
Dedicated to the development of new art
and new criticism must be built
on comradely cooperation, which
directly educates their employees
in the direction of socialist ideals.

Passed unanimously with 1 abstention
shemeya.

Resolution on the Workers' University.
{Speaker A. Mashirov (Salobytnym).

1) Concentration of state activity
gharala in the hands of the Workers' and Peasants' Power
creates the possibility of immediate organization
tions of the Proletarian Universitet. how high

G

toy ma | 31

high schools, and centers of fly-by science.

2) In Proletarian Universities prole-
the tariat must be given the opportunity
the possibility of complete mastery of scientific knowledge
tom nand based on its verification with the highest class
from an owl point of view, for the purpose of dilling,
deepening and further development of all
gains of the revolution.

3) To develop a program and create
the first leading teaching staff
it is necessary to attract the best theories
tical forces of our revolutionary ©o-
socialism, mainly from the party of com-
Moonies and those who sympathize with it.

4) Control over the nature of programs and
general management of affairs in the Proletarian Uni-
universities belongs to the conference and s’ez-
I will give the proletarian cultural and educational
ny organizations.

5) The very development of programs should be
rise in the cooperation of leaders
and listeners. At the same collaboration
all teaching and
internal autonomous organization of life
University. University Councils should
we consist of representatives from the listening
lei and managers with the participation of representatives
tel Proletkulls, the People's Commissar-
mat, Education and local Soviets.

6) Program tasks of the Proletarians
Universities conclude 3 cycles or
course;

a) the preparatory must formalize and
systematize the knowledge you already have
from listeners, and also supplement them with all
knowledge necessary to master the cycle
main ;

6) the main one should be wide and strong, in
laid the foundation for a strictly scientific formulation
you have a socialist worldview, pre-
turning the listener into an educated social

sheet that knows the basic methods ›
main areas of spiders; And
c) specialized is divided according to

On the construction of the social process, on
faculties: technical, economic and
cultural: on each of them specifically,
in an in-depth scientific formulation, isuchart

Xia corresponding group of objects, but not
isolated from other pears, and in u60bho-
Dima connection © them, with common departments
such basic subjects, kah political
savings.

7) To train scientific personnel

givers must serve as sustenance. _
in Moscow Socialist A; and not-.

it is necessary to organize the same in Petro-

city. They must rathose who already have

some scientific experience, further corresponding
relevant theoretical and practical
Preparation. They must continue
‹their scientific work is carried out by those workers who
ry at the end of the Proletarian School
sites will dedicate themselves to special work
in one area or another. r

8) Prozetayu Universities should
be organized in all major pro-

the largest centers of Sovelezha Russia, on-
starting from Moscow and Petrograd.

9) Access to Proletarian Universities
must be free first of all for
workers, only with what is necessary in the interests
the listeners themselves through a comradely check
knowledge.

10) More proletarian public
institutions, factory establishments, ^ trade
industrial, professional, cooperative
rallies—must ‘provide their ra-
workers and employees `possibility of visiting
university courses. | E

‘Accepted unanimously a, z zozpershah-
shiheya.

Revolution on the club issue. }
eах St. Krivtsov and Krzhizhanov-
skiy).

The working workshop lives on you
RE sheri is ryka

s

go Zry only in that case; if
all work will be based on creativity
ical activity of all its members.

To overcome everyday philistinism
dominant in family relations
workers, clubs must actively’ fight against
him, involving everyone in his creative life
members of the proletarian sembi.

To involve the broad masses of the proletariat

° and in @your work the club shares © it with everyone
with their achievements. |

Organizationally, all proletarian clubs
"In May, together the local ‘Pro-

1
m cabbage soup and. this construction
The Dvored of Proletarian Culture appeared.

%. Addendum to the resolution.

The conference invites comrades to
places to accept theses for management
-. listened to reports etc. K r and Krzhi-
-® Uzhanorsky and instructs Ts.K. `Prryaetkultov
“* * \developed an approximate charter for Proletsky
Club. but the club’s charter recommends

_ bov of the Moscow Proletkult.

BURN,

No. 1

The conference expresses the wish,
so that the Red Army clubs are in
cramped cooperation with all workers
organizationHow can we strengthen the unity of
Lethariy and the Red Army soldier, and how he destroyed -
the dark sides of barracks life.

Accepted by the overwhelming majority of the network
21 abstained and 2 were against.

Resolution on the issue of working with youth
stvom.

‘(Speaker E. Khersonskaya).

1) One of the essential tasks of cultural
tour construction of the proletariat is
there is assistance to ensure that spontaneous.
the growth of youth was brought into line with the consciousness

body class about life creativity.

2) For these purposes, the Proletkult section
When working with young people, it is necessary to
worked: a) organizations of youth unions
live, both locally and nationally
national masiggabe, b) m
nomu samooptoele: leziu
three of them. *

zakl Vnu-

`more intimate character-
us, & with another introduction
pedagogical. proluman-

rum with one
in the prophecy.

° new experiments in social and everyday life

creativity, What is necessary in interests
preparation for the national reconstruction
tel

4) Objectives of physical education and ©b-
youth education requires the creation of 0°©-
former instructors, since bourgeois
experts in this matter are mostly
teas are poorly oriented in the labor market
expensive ‘iroletarego-byy. ts

5) The youth of the Red Army must
be involved in. unions; t work with
Red Army soldiers should * be equipped
damn to their life so, process 0bu-

studies in military affairs were in close connection
with the `growth of Claeeov's knowledge and not
suppressed him. |

6) In the interests of the international movement
the formation of the proletariat is necessary in local
youth unions to support the trend
to establish communication, p. similar to soya
zame of the whole meeting.

7) It is advisable that the person
The All-Russian Youth Union had ©vo-
his pretavitola.in Proletkult, as well as
in other centers of the labor movement.

culture- |

No. t

BURN. E

33

8)) It is advisable that public organizations
organizations were meeting the youth in the school halfway
hard work surveying public
forms of building a socialist republic
public, without refusing answers to questionnaires
you, produced by youth unions.

9) It is necessary until the warthe socialist state is so ok
realizes that he can free the youth
from work in factories, to achieve training
waiting for at least two hours for those who are working
work in studios and other cultural pro-
lighting cells.

Adopted unanimously with 1 abstention.

Resolution on the issue of cultural pro-
professional lighting tasks
unions.

(Speaker, Cassior).
1) Professional So'ozs, like klagso-

high workers' organizations interested in
in the construction of proletarian culture,

must provide the most in this regard’

valuable support of the All-Russian Or-
ganizashchii Proletkulga. In the interests of the public
consumption of all cultural and creative activities
the vigor of the proletariat's work in the field
general development of issues - flight?
science and art must be ideologically consistent
concentrated in Proletkult organizations,
and not to be scattered among individual professions
nal 'workers' organizations. .

‚ 2) Cultural-organizational - activity
the presence of trade unions should
to be the main focus, : —©0-
‚ having come up with new tasks, inserting them
before the professional movement, ON
. Kultun) - and industrial education wider -
of the working masses in the spirit of comradely dis-
philosophy and collectivism.

3) In relation to this cultural-or-
organizational departments of Professional
Solozov, closely associated with Proletkults,
must organize courses, lectures, ashes
technical classes, exhibitions, etc. in military

production-professional-
nooo Aa (According to theory and practice, tariff
howl activities, regulation and protection -
labor, on issues of the worker's mortgage-
ties, history of development and status of the country
life, production management, national
t and trusting of assets and
#3. + y

4) For this purpose, the Professional Co-
Users also need to be created in a single
workers' clubs have special departments, wherever iro-

{4

*

letariat during leisure hours in an accessible form
me (by tables and diagrams, professional
nal working sadness, working cinema-
tographer, etc.) could get to know everyone
achievementsand professional needs
national labor movement. -

5) At the Working University of the Professional
spontaneous Unions must be created
Professional Department, in which case
concentrating and developing in 00-
on a larger scale, the entire experience of the Union
zheniya and where would the training be prepared?
torah and practical workers, obeluzhi-
working divisions - Professional
Unions.

Adopted unanimously.

Revolution on the issue of cultural pro-

lighting tasks of cooperative workers
Tivov.

(Speaker N. Vasilevsky).

1) Workers' cooperation as a whole form
labor movement, which must be guided
in its cultural and educational activities
telenoy those general principles that
ry formed the basis of the Russian movement
of the proletariat after the October Revolution.

2) Workers' Cooperation in its cultural
but educational work must go
from “kulturtregerstva” and “Iro-illuminator-
stvo" to the active creation of the proletarian
culture. " |

3) To achieve this goal, crops
but educational work of the Workers Co-op
protests should be carried out under the banner of “Pro-
letkult" and rb’unite around local
its cells.

4) Workers of the Cooperative must provide
the broadest support for Proletkult,
in centers and locally, as material
funds, resources and employees.

5) Those huge funds that
who gather in Worker Cooperatives
from workers to consumers, there must be
are used rationally to create
development of a new proletarian culture under the leadership
leadership of the All-Russian Center for Prole-
Tara Kulturv-Proovetitelnye Ourga
nizations—C. K. "Proletkulta".

6) Finding that the work of “culturists”,
“who are now leading the Workers’ Cooperation,
causes obvious harm to herkevkdy + I
zelsva of the proletariat, hall: 0 tse
creation of a new proletarian culture,
Russian Conference Span:
Cultural and Educational

1x

Mine POV

` ‚branches of literary creativity, starting

334

instructs TsK Proletkult to develop
‘together with communist co-operators measures
real control over cultural
prlighting work of those Workers Co-
operatives in which they firmly established
Nest of prolegarlate-hostile elom_ites
of saboteurs, social traitors and 6be-
Lo-SRs. 77?
Adopted unanimously.

Resolution on the issue of literary publishing
Telsky.

(Speaker Mandelbaum).

The proletariat is called upon to create its own art
natural literature and poetry,
significantly different from the former
since bourgeois; - nominate your own
thisP and fiction writers, artists of words, primarily
flattening the newborn life, B
their new forms. He had to find new ones
ways of creativity; partly this ethos has already happened
walking, and a number of young proletarian writers
Teley reveals his creativity in the field
spruce,.

1) To achieve this goal it is necessary
widespread creation of special literary
studios, whose work would be carried out according to
two directions:

a) It would give acquaintance with literature
significant heritage of past eras, and for this
courses would be taught on the history of ancient and
new literature, Russian and foreign
criticism and cultural history, all
these courses must be presented in light
ini Marxist worldview.

6) Working writer and working reader
must become familiar with the technology, © external
skill, with the skills of literary creativity
quality - why are theoretical
courses and practical classes in me-
trike, rhythm, and general theory of poetry
zheniya, according to the theory of dramaturgy, artistic
noah, prose and criticism.

2) theoretically should be highlighted
technical and practical classes in journal-
stick, with which new acquaintance
locally scattered studios must be
organized at, representative namcha-
zakh. ‘

3) BUT editorial activities
ny collectives, in their main features
should boil down to the following:

a) To publish theoretical textbooks and
‚ illuminated from a class point
‚ and technical manuals for all

from poetry to journalism.

FOR

Ah...

9

No. t

6) To the widest edition of the work
days of proletarian writers, and, moreover,
however, only the best should be published
neck,really valuable, because the right to
chatting is a right that everyone should
to conquer oneself; for the worker is a writer,
is the organizer of collective thought iro-
letariat..

Addendum to the resolution.

The Conference instructs the Central Co-
Meeting of the Russian Proletkult:

1) Take part in the organization as soon as possible
of the All-Russian Union of Workers
salelei.

2) Expresses a wish to convene, when
the first opportunity - Military
Congress of Workers' Writers, for the purpose of
private organization of the Union.

3) Create a central authority that unites
It's time for the proletarians - workers.

Adopted unanimously with 4 abstentions.

Resolution on the issue of visual
nal arts.

(Speaker A. Andreev).

First All-Russian Conference Pro-
Letarian Cultural and Educational Or-
organizations accepts the following main
provisions in identifying and creating the foundations
proletarian fine art: about art.

1) It is necessary to combine all the paths
many creators and artists in educational work"
educational and instructional and propaganda
communes.

2) Entrust such communes with
tion and arrangement of workshops—studios, la-
boralorium for training Collie
creative arts, in all specialties of art
braziel::ogo iskusegva. |

3) Finding out in collective cooperation
the basis of the ideology of proletarian art
dojozhnogo creativity, drink and
saturate the entire life of the proletariat with
by carrying out
th communism, means and forms of iso-
Brazilian art.

4) Direct creative, hard-working
collectives of ice collectors
tar science and methodology ‘in depiction’

body art and educational

we should be universities-factories
Letarian fine arts, organiza-
organized and constructed throughout the Soviet Union
skaya territory.

5) Unborn wires

pagaida social

to ›detic products

Brazilian art in the entire region
Life should be served by educational and BOsPI-
cultural institutions: clubs, theaters, mu-
Zen, Workers Universities and factories, la-
oogalleries, art galleries, exhibitions,
cinematography, excursions, etc.

6) Communes of the proletariat, and their representatives

tel in state municipal and
public institutions must accept
mother the most energetic measures in broad
responsible for all activities in this area:
in decorating cities (building, building,
erection of monuments, participation" in folk
festivities), in industrial production
literature, printed works in the widest possible
com scale, etc. . { (
_ For example, pictures of p-volution, ati-
‘other popular prints, illustrations, posters, gozt-
figures of public figures, monuments and
other structures for which it is necessary
provide for the Communes. everyone - little by little,
property and financial resources.

7) All exemplary production
Honoring the Commune of Proletarian Artists, co-
‘they are destroying the property of the entire proletariat, and
‘are collected in production, voslit-
public, public institutions
gift of etwa.

5) Summarizing the main tasks of the proletariat -
t, In the field of fine arts, trans-
1st All-Russian Conference Prolegar-
Russian Cultural and Educational Organizations
CII sees creative works as
Brazilian arts created in 0s-
hWe proletarian revolutionary ideology
ii, night light of joy, beauty and mulrosity
Life. proletariat, & also the mighty
a tool for promoting class consciousness
naya In the international proletarian revolution
Lucia.

The conference erit, ch1o proletarian is-
the art as a whole will light up the world's fires and
will lay out the path to world socialism.

Adopted unanimously with 5 abstentions.

Resolution on the issue of Proletarek
Teztre.

(Speaker V. Kerzhentsev).

First All-Russian Conference Pro-
about the tasks of the music department of Proletkul- |

‚Lotarek Cultural and Educational Organizations
Nizations, attaching special importance to co-
The building of a proletarian theater, - outlines
the following nearest saloons theaterralia them
Etdelov Proletkult:

1 the government of the proletarian ›‚ theater
AYulzhno worked hard with the creation of active personnel

35

ditch, who came from the proletarian environment and
Streflecting peihology, plans and str-
the thoughts of the revolutionary proletariat, i.e.
from education at Proletkult drama-
ical working studios.

’2) Instructor work in
dolikna go with the participation of those professional
actors who are close to the aspirations of the
working class to the creation of a socialist
th theater. Work under ideological socialism
technical control, these technical professionals
nicknames will teach workers the necessary
ABC of performing arts, familiarize yourself
with the latest trends, providing then
Wide field for free creativity! ar-
to the proletarians. |

3) The repertoire of the proletarian theater, presented
still worth creating, and this should be addressed
the main focus of theatrical and literary
literary departments of Proletkults. In vi-
de transitional measure from world literature
you can choose plays that treat themes,
similar in spirit to revolutionary sentiments
of the proletariat.. |

4) As completed projects are completed,
flying troupes are the best in existence
teals should be transferred to the jurisdiction
Proletkultov.

5) Until then, in the field of bourgeois
theater of state power predetont: a)
nationalized theaters, i.e., confiscate them
from the hands of a private enterprise and transfer to a company
munam or state, 6) make records
of all artistic forces and groups in the whole
for their uniform distribution across the station?
no, c) take strict control of the reper-
theaters and help establish rener-
toire that meets the requirements of the era.

Adopted, unanimously with 5 abstentions.

Resolution on the question of proletarian mu-
language

(Speakers N. Bryusova and B. Krasin).

Music is like the purest reflection
inner spiritual life, as the strongest
neck remedy. organizing chuvetzo and vo-
I love the masses as a great force for re-creation
human knowledge, must be integral
part of proletarian culture, and therefore

product includes:
1) Help the proletariat in mastering the mu-
linguistic heritage of humanity.
2) Promoting the identification of emerging diseases
state of collective and individual

creativity of the proletariat in the -field of music-

3*

studiyah ‹

36 THORNE,

cal art in the form of lyumoshi artist
peak performers and creative artists
tsam.

3) Fight against music substitutes (reeto-
early music, vulgar music ‘based on words’
revolutionary content, etc.) main-
in a different way by contrasting them
revived folk art
dream of the best works of new music
great creativity.

In ‘These goals must be immediately
but also the proletarians are organized everywhere
'skie music and vocal studios under
supervision of experienced managers, =io-
sent by Proletkult.

Accepted, unanimously with 2 abstentions

Charter of the All-Russian Proletarian Council
Russian Cultural and Educational Organizations
° nizations.

(All-Russian Proletkult Council).

All-Russian Council of Proletkult,
as the organizational completion of a new
forms of the labor movement, is the price
trom, uniting and guiding in de-
le construction of revolutionary commu-
by the proletariat of its proletarian
skoy culture,

To do this, he unites all proletarian
cultural and educational organizations
and creates them again, forming from
them district and provincial Proletkults.

Note. Solutions All
Russian Conference and Fan-
of the Council are obligatory for all
united in Proletkult by eagles-
tions.

The Council prepares the leadership of its leaders,
special instructors-organizers and
sends them to the field in order to promote
for the correct organization of work on
construction of proletarian culture.

Russian Council of Proletkult, ‹o-
consists of 15 members and 8 candidates,
elected by the conference; in addition, according to
The 1st representative will be called Muscovite,
Petrogradsky and every provincial Pro-
Letkult, All-Russian Central Is-
Executive Committee of the Council of Deputies, Central
ny Committee of the Russian Communist
Parties, People's Commissariat for Education
cheniya, All-Russian Council of Professional
nal Unions, Central professional
nal unions (for example, motalists,
textiles; railway workers, etc.),
Workers' Cooperation Council, Vgray-
Sky Center Revolutionary-socialist

No. t

Youth, Red Army and Navy.

Powers of the Council. the situation continues
his election before the next conference,
which is convened by the Council no less than one
for the second time a year.

The Council itself meets at least once
once every 3 months. Its quorum is determined by
votes in half of all votes
its members.

For the practical implementation of standing
current problems selected by Proletkult
for the conference the members constitute the executive
body of the Council, the Central Committee
meeting, which in turn highlights
Presidium of 7 people.

The conference elects the Chairman, 2.x
comrades and secretary. To establish
contact with the People's Commissariat No.
Education Conference selects 3For-
Head of the Department of Proletarian Culture
ry in the People's Commission on Prosvesh" -
niya, as well as 2 members of the board.

Department of Proletarian Culture in 'People-
Nom. Commissariat for Education leads
your work in full contact © Ts.K. Pro-
letcult, and gives in his work. Co-report
vetu Proletkult. `th

All-Russian Council of Proletkult con-
stages the following departments: Scientific, Is-
arts, literary-publishing, organiza-
Educational and Instructional, Financial
Department of Child Education (latest by
to the extent possible.

At the head of each Department is a manager
responsible to Ts.K. for all things
working in the Work Department.

Work is carried out in accordance with regulations
Conference and Council; for successful de-
l The Central Committee may create
various auxiliary institutions, in the form of etu-
diy-laboralurium, etc. |

Editorial Board of the Central Authority, “Prole-
Tara Culture" c. five members
elected and approved at the All-Russian
skaya Conference. Under her supervision goes
"all publishing houses of the Central Committee
Proletkult. :d:

Means. All-Russian Council consists of:
from accountable subsidies of the People's Commission
Sariat for the Enlightenment and from the income of the times.
personal enterprises and institutions of the Council.

1 note: Ts.K. is gaining
self-taxation planroletarial” and we deserve
whether construction, proletarian culture,

which comes into force with approval (o-

tetom.

2 note: All independent
proletarians culturally - celebratory _

‚ Ortanizadia, using cash
Power from government agencies to
hierarchy of organization and development of its activities
reality, must strive to exist
fuck for your own sake.

Note: Be ©. ganizalia Ire-

_lotkult must strive to work
local community organizations singled out

their dohyuds to the local Proletkult, sho
mutual agreement allocated 1poo-
cent.

The Audit Committee of five persons selected

Voted by the Conference, to

Adopted unanimously with 3 abstentions.

———ыы=Шшшаыы—ы—

‘
at

Central Committee of the Fan Council
Proletarekh Cultural - Pro-Educational
Organizations.

Central Committee elected by the conference
in the following composition:

Predeechatel - 11. I. Lebedev (V. Polyansky).
Comrade, Chairman - F. I. Kalinim.
and A.I. Mashiirov (Originalist).
Secretary - V.V. Ignatov.

ny: H

—

; A. Bozgdamov.
M. Vasilevsky.
K; Galuochev.
P. Gerasimov.
A. Dodonova.
. B. Vassiyur,

. E. Kirillov.
I. Nikitin.
‚ A. Ozol;

‚I. Sadofiev.
I. Faydysh,

Members Ts, K.—.

yy newov

Board of the Department of Proletarian Culture at
. Nar. Com. Enlightenment:

Head department—F. And Kalinin.
Members of the board—A. I. Maiirov

(Originalist).
V. P. Faydyshch.

Editorial Board of the magazine “Proletarskaya Kultura”

A. A. Bozdanov.

F. I. Kalinin.

V. Kerzhentsev.

P. I. Lebedev (V. Polyansky).
A. I. Maiirov (Originalist).
\

Gang. S. T. Konenkov.

.

BURN. - Eeveey o. 2

Literary-Publishing
department

Fundamentals of Poetic Technique
Valeria Bryusova.

The exceptional power of self-affirmation
NIYA captured every line of poetry
Bryusov's creations, every phrase of his
critical notes. Bryusov always and
Everywhere he opposes himself, his own world,
thereby excluding yourself from it.

n a prisoner of himself, of his primordial

BUT of a closed soul:

He is forever, forever in the center of the circle,
And my horizons are always closed.

Hence the persistently tormenting feelings
stvaisolation from life, loneliness
quality, fatigue, internal depletion
challenges—which are becoming increasingly difficult to overcome
his arrogant and cold stubbornness.

Rryusov cannot merge with the inside
life, he can only watch it
from the outside, look closely at her
experiments, persistently including all new ones
its new areas in indissoluble-jade-
nal circle of your consciousness. So crazy
the merciful observer of life is
his "poet":

g

Be his cold witness,
Fixing your gaze on everything.
May your virtue be—
readiness to go to the fire.
Embraced in moments of love!
I can’t help myself to dispassion...

Each verse is a fixed observation"

NIE, victory over life:

Howl, maybe everything in life is just a means
brightly melodious poems...

KU

Bifurcation is the law of Bryusov’s consciousness,
splitting the integrity of his very
passionate impulses. Inexorably conscious
telny, he always decomposes, comparative
he remembers. Harmonic pro-
he does not know simplicity, clarity, lightness,
although he longs for them and is drawn to poets, I know -
who share their secret - Pushkin, Zhukovsky,
Verlaine. And Bryusov is always static: he
sees and pins only individual
moments of life's movement, stopping it
at one point (hence its rigidity
landscapes, his passion for describing
monuments, ruins, his inscriptions to
engravings: life’ for him is eternal non-
mobility).

A verse is an imprint of the poet's soul. Poem-
military technology is those developed
therefore, the techniques that give him the opportunity
the ability to cut your soul into size
the intensity and sonority of a word, to capture
her in every movement, in every sound
verse. The poet's soul predetermines him
technique: every poet achieves something different
from a verse than another; every poets
every true poet has his own technique,
their methods and techniques for working on sti-
home The above features inherent
to the poet Bryusov, until a certain age -
allow you to guess in advance basically: 1 black"
you are his technician. First of all it's clear
then concentrated attention and emphasis
with whom he worked on technology
Coy of your verse, having learned little
her to the exceptional level of owlsershen-_
ness, which was based on the indisputable knowledge
com and master of verse. this technique—

in with aw
4 E.

namely Bryusov's, which imprinted the
steel-cold consciousness,
the whiplash, static character of its creator.

then it is embraced by the designation “poetry”
creative technique? It's not hard to understand
even to a person who has never written
poems Suppose you are at random
opened Bryusov’s book “Rome and the World”
and your eyes fell on the next line:

But I shuddered and suddenly recovered...

We see - in this line there are four
stress, through a syllable (But shuddered! th and
suddenly perked up). When denoting a syllable,

separated by a dash with an accent mark

(—‘), unstressed through a dash (—), can-
but draw this line as follows
way:

About IG }

We see: repeated four times in
this line has the same group of words
gov: This is the so-called foot, defined
dividing its composition into a meter (size)
lines. Here this foot is two-syllable:
it consists of two syllables - the first is unsuccessful
struck, second, oh—struck. Such a foot
(and hence this whole size) is called
is iambic. So, to the question: what meth-
rum the parsed string is written (in this
In no case—and the entire poem, from which
whom it was taken), we answer: four-
iambic foot (last syllable, remain-
extending beyond the last foot,
is not taken into account here) '). Ta
part of the poetic technique that
devoted to the development of the doctrine of meters,
called a metric.

But the meter of the poem, relentlessly
observed throughout
the latter would lead to a tedious
monotonous search for accents—
‚ 2, 3, 4 per line - depending on
meter Gallant poets avoid this,

1) There are many sizes in Russian. Ony
differ from each other as in the number of incoming
in the line of stops (Nair, iambic can also be two-footed)
nal, trimeter, pentameter, etc.), and
the contents of the feet themselves. There is another two-
complex meter, except iambic: this is the so-called
trochaic, where the first syllable is stressed,
and the second - unstruck (—' —); here's an example
tetrameter trochee:

IbmnI am happy, my dear friend.

— | ie =:
There are, further, three-syllable sizes: dak-

ethyl (—' — —), amphibrachium (— —" —), anapest

(— — —'). The four-topic anasest sounds like this:

I'm running into the dead forests.

And

bringing different shades into motion
verse, even diversifying the meter with straight lines
deviations from it, Read further:

But I shuddered, | and suddenly perked up,
And, tore | hand made ring.

Like lightning, | he looked at me in the face
Victoriously | increasing sound.

We see: in the second line - blow
tion, which was supposed to indicate
second syllable from beginning, sharply dropped
on the fourth syllable, conveying rush-
movement speed ("torn"): second
the syllable remained unaccented. On the contrary,
in the fourth and fifth lines - without stress -
the 4th syllable remained; three unstressed
syllables following the stress on
second syllable, create slowdown: it
draws to us, ‘like a poet with intense
immobility listens in post-
foamy rising sound. Thanks
this diversity in location is successful
rhenium, completely different sound-
cheat and main suppression (main
caesura) of each verse *).

Still, acceleration, deceleration, etc.
some more subtle shades introduced into
meter of the poem, accepted - several
inaccurately, call it rhythm (from
difference from its meter). That part of the poem
creative technology, which is assigned to the study
knowledge about rhythms is called rhythmizha.

Let us further pay attention to the fact that
the end of the 1st line is consonant with the end
3rd, end of 2nd - with end of 4th: this
the so-called end rhyme, here
two-syllable, i.e. one in which
the last two syllables sound (perked—
looked) and monosyllabic (hand-sound); reef
ma found within a verse is called
is internal. Special department of poetry
creative technology is also devoted to the doctrine of
rhymes. Finally, it is adjacent to
cases about the so-called verbal instrument
mentovier of the verse, allocated to the development
question about the selection of sounds included in
verse, for each of these sounds must
wives should not be random, but appropriate
give a certain shade of content,
entering into general harmony therewith other
gimi (similar to in an orchestra
each instrument performs its intended
the part of the whole that meant to him. plays:

Iran

1) Caesura - here denoted by transverse
line - marks the stop of the voice when reading
verse and, - the arrangement of caesuras gives one or
a different shade to the movement of the verse,

chi cho
No. t

hence the very name - verbal
instrumentation).

Bryusov's metric!) is issued by its
wealth. Trisyllabic sizes
wider and more sonorous, it
rarely used. His favorite meters are—
short, minted two-syllable
measures: iambic and trochee. In their development -
especially in the development of chorea—it is achieved
of inexhaustible variety, over-
leafing through his book “Wreath”, we meet
tea trochee trimeter, tetrameter,
pentameter, hexameter, seven-meter,
octameter. Bryusov strikes him
ability to build a stanza: then placing next to
two lines of the same length, with the same
number of feet, then delicately intertwining
3, 4, 5, 6 such lines, then unexpectedly
replacing a long line with a short one, he
same size extracts
a wide variety of effects (for pain-
our visibility we will take ours
examples mainly from the region
this favorite Bryusov size—
chorea). Particularly characteristic of Bru-
owl are sophisticated, masterfully developed by them
nerdy long lines (e.g. 7-stop
ny, 8-foot).

Here is an unstoppable, jubilant run
eight-foot trochee, which is still
gives swiftness a clear inner
rhyme on the 4th foot:

We only dream of passion and dreams, but the soul
. will wake up again

Will light up with eternal light - only in love:
ness! only love!

But Bryusov throws away one foot
in the first line, two in the second, rhyme
in the middle turns into a vague association
nans*), - and look how unrecognizable
the meter changes: what a slowness,
mutedness—what sadness!

Sad dusk, sad evening, rustles
in the oaks.
Recalls the evening about distant dreams.

‚ Opening the book “To Rome and the World”:
before us is a poem entitled
"Gerem".

Quiet days and years - years in the mansion,
Like waters are pouringslowly into the darkness.

——

1) We take Vryusov’s technique into the episode
heyday, marked by three books: I,
to the world", "Wreath", "All tunes*, taken from them
Honor all our examples.

*) Assonance—deliberately imprecise rhyme (here:
Wind evening).

G E,

BURN.

41

Isn't it completely different?
sharply different from the previous size—
and how captivatingly cradled. But a glance
Be careful: this is the same size. Only from
the first line has one foot cut off, yes
the assonance in the middle is again turned into
rhyme (years of water). But it’s complicated, no-
erroneously calculated and closed,
like the Egyptian pyramid, stanza with three
passing from top to bottom internal
them rhymes (it was the grave of the Nile,
memory—desire—date, time—
us - hour), in which, like three str-
lami, a passionate impulse pierces sharply
shortened enclosed string:

Our happiness - it used to be, our passion -
memory, our life is not the first time,
And, behind the temporary grave, unquenched desires with
they breathe in us with the same strength,
near the Nile, at the hour of rendezvous, in the fatal and
For a short time! 1).

But characteristic of all these purely
There is one thing about Bryusov meters: their unchangeable
clarity, correctness, closure or
measuredly correct change of two times
measures within one poem.
When Bryusov tries to break the shackles
this correctness, isolation, tortures-
to write in a broad and rebellious manner
nere of the Belgian poet Verhaeren, his
by freely mixing different sizes, producing
freely alternating between long and short
lines, he immediately loses his independence
ity and brightness.

No less rich than the Bryusov metric
and its rhythm. He knows how to assimilate great
some rhythmic variety
common, common Russian meters
skoy poetry—tetrameter, pentameter
no iambic, trochee tetrameter. After
free run of Pushkin, languages -
Sky, Blok's verse, Bryusov's
the verse may seem rhythmically one-
figurative, constrained, angular. But this
only the peculiarity of the rhythm. Rhythm of the verse
can be likened to a gesture that sets off
spoken words. Rhythmic gesture
Bryusova in shortk, reserved; his strength and
expressiveness lies in its thoughtfulness,
minted, in conscious diversity
Frasions of its shades always accurately answer

1) This poem is based by the poet on mi-
static brutalization of the ancients manifold
reincarnation of the human soul: he `depicts
reaps his love as an otavuk of the former, relating
by the time his soul was
embodied in ancient Egypt. m:
42

those who value the meaning of speech. Literally, in verse
from time immemorial a certain heaviness weighs upon him,
oppressing him to the monotony of pure
meters, making it relatively small
number of direct deviations from the last
him '). But you are amazed at how rhythmically
Bryusov managed to distribute the
divide this burden into its component parts
of his verse: here - make it almost
imperceptible, there to extract from it a special
artistic effect. He is a master of not-
perceptible rhythmic shades, creating
caused by one location or another
words, their length, semantic relationships
nyami, collisions of their sounds, - fluently
We will indicate here only a few of them.

Here he is collecting this leaning on him
verse heaviness - on one word, highlighting,
cutting it off:

The same confidence

In a stubborn soul - no...
Bushust_blizzard and tosses up

A whirlwind over a weakening fire 3)...

Here it is more or less evenly
distributes it into different parts
verse, sharply dividing it into three, four
caesurae falling after being struck
syllable,

Looks wild
Five, | into the empty darkness, | Orpheus...
Get out! | Leave it! | I'm coming | alone...

On the contrary, precondition t, 2, 3 un-
given syllable to the main caesura, it is not
subtly lightens the verse:

This is a thing | or an hour
The eyes are yawning | yours...
Sew invisible | hands...

But such soft, “fading” caesuras,
as in the last line, uncharacteristic
for Bryusov’s solid, clear verse.
Often he prefers in these cases
combine caesura of the first type, clearly
dividing the verse in half, with one of the different
the strength of your beloved's rhythmic
repetition technique.

Repetition is perhaps the worst thing
typical for Bryusov rhythmic
I eat. It clearly shows the closed- |
this staticity, immobility of consciousness
Bryusov, hesitating to concentrate

1) An example of skillful use of them can be
The first one given in this article can serve
quatrain,

2) Cut off!: and achieved here by retreating from
meter: the stress is moved from the second syllable to

BURN.

No. t

based on one thing that has already been comprehended and
secured, reluctantly moving on to
new. We can safely say that
no matter the number of repetitions, that’s all
I didn’t know their third-party development. I didn’t know Russian.
Sky poetry before Bryusov. Here it is possible
but to list only a small part of those
various effects, which due to
he draws from this technique. Sometimes
he repeats the whole line, forcing
reader again, with special attention
to delve into her every word; sometimes
echoes only the hemistich, a separate
combination of words, one word. That (how
already mentioned above) repetition
verse eases him; tender, lulling
It sounds so clear at times.

0, swim, oh, swim...
I don't dare, I don't dare...

On the contrary, Bryusov sharply insists
on repeat, making it sound
imperiously, swiftly, or re-
giving a dull, concentrated persistence:

I'm yours! I'm yours! Shut up! Shut up!..
Next! Next! Next!..
I'll go after him, after him...

Already this simple form of repetition
brought to high perfection
Bryusova. But even more remarkable, even
more characteristic of his rhythmic ma-
the ministry generously scattered by him, repeated
rhenium partial semi-hidden: replacing
one word to another, rearranging words,
repeating the same word in different
rpm, he can, within one
and the same repetition, enchant the ear
refined variety:

A random gift, an instant gift...
A dream of love and happiness, a dream...
This is fire, this is blood,

Blood flowing from the wounds... .

The man who irresistibly fascinates you
the language of selfless tenderness and love:

I hear, I hear your gentle step,
I hear your step behind me...

But take a closer look - what is the secret of this mu-
languages? In repetition, combined with
subtle and unexpected arrangement
words An ordinary (not even a bad) poet
I would just cut myself offby repeating:
53%

#

I hear, I hear your gentle step,
I hear your step behind me -

and we would glance indifferently -

ROLL.  tie

No. t

RT

we are on these smooth, nothing special
outstanding lines).

Let's turn to Bryusov's rhyme. Before-
the value of a rhyme is its completeness
that, sound wealth, - when I con-
chat several final sounds of a word (i.e.

eg rhymes "owl - head", "live -"

yawning" will be richer; poorer
rhymes such as “head - tear”, “moan -
dream". Further, it is valued in rhyme. "red-
bone" - when it joins words
of different order, the combination of which
is unexpected for the reader, not
ordinary: these are rhymes like “screw -
labyrinth,” “wooled with a shovel,” caress—

amask"; on the contrary, "beaten", too
where such things are considered common
rhymes like “sea - grief”, “distance -
chal". Consonances of verb endings
(“metal—played—slept,” etc.). With pure
the sound side of Bryusov's rhyme is not
can compete with the rhyme of others
modern poets, more than he,
musically gifted: V. Ivanova, A.
Blok, K. Balmont. She is relatively
poor: “tables - circled”, “lists - close-
ki", "vow - no" - these are the usual ones, in this
relation, for Bryusov's rhymes. But
Bryusov's rhymes should often be used
are known to be “rare”. Surprise,
the weirdness of consonance successfully sets off
he is the unusualness of the chosen situation,
events, experiences. To such reefs
he addresses mom, for example, when he draws
boats of free wanderers - seafarers -
calves pestering the wild rocky
my bank:

Faithful boats moor
To these sad tesvins.

Here, on the cold basalt,
We'll spend a dark night.

But depicting the situation, more
ordinary, feelings are simpler and more familiar
whom the reader, Bryusov is not afraid of
run to the most “hackneyed” rhymes.

When I encountered grief in childhood
Or causeless sadness,

Everything was calmed by the sea

And the sea is a gentle distance.

The power of Bryusov's rhyme is in that natural
importance and necessity with which
it stands at the end of the verse, emphasizing
highlighting the desired word. Pay attention
mania for both onlywhat are these mentioned?
quatrains; you will see that by

r y

1) Observations of A. Bely.

92 i

43

rhymes can be traced all their co-
holding: in each rhyme - the center of gravity
tin lines, its “theme”. Subtly knows
Bryusov and the shades that he brings
in a verse, one or another length of rhyme - its
one-syllable, two-syllable, three-syllable
ity, etc. '). Let us also point out the non-
Bryusov’s rare internal rhymes,
which he uses no less skillfully
but rather than the rhymes that close the verse:

We didn't expect, we didn't know...

0, sleep! your sleep & belly and structure...
I opened the heavy curtain

And drowned in the scorching day...

It remains for us to say about the sound fabric
not a Brusz verse about his intru-
mentovkyo. And here Bryusov cannot
claim one of the first places. On-
it would be futile to look in his poems
that immediate musicality
with which Blok’s songs enchant us
(and this is easy, of course: after all, music is stylistic
ha—only a reflection of the immediate,
the music of feeling—and he doesn’t even know it
Bryusov). The secret of the charm of its meters,
its rhythms have to be carefully scrutinized
guess - the music of his poems,
expecting persistent and deliberate work,
always easily and clearly “decomposed”,
always gives out its constituent elements
cops are limited and meager. Cha-
tin, which has always been heavy on Bryusovsky
verse is reflected in its sound composition
excessive accumulation of consonants - on
fight against which Bryusov and concentrated
Mainly concentrates on his work
in the field of instrumentation. Often he
remains defeated in this fight.
Try reading aloud these poems:
hee, like:

Morning pearls and amber roses...
Oak and cedar from the high mountains...

phrases such as “the meaning of books”,
“your plan,” and you will feel how
they really resist saying them
Senya, require special, overwhelming
their resistance, efforts. But even in this
Bryusov area is sometimes successfully used
changes his usual fighting techniques:
then, with a cluster of consonants, he emphasizes -
says some cut word
(Whirlwind over the weakening mower), then for-

1) Characteristic clarity, invariably distinguished
successfulVryusov's rhymes. His assonances
usually give the impression of being far-fetched,
elaborateness.
puts them in a variety of ways. echo
`among themselves, they are surrounded by echoes -
vowels - and thus often
comprehends, if not genuine musical-
ity, then still significant expressiveness
importance in highlighting the meaning of the verse.
Here is a game of sounds that conveys
vortex burst:

` Here it is, here it is, the wind of will!

Here are the heavy, hard sounds 3, p, t, k,
reconciling the weight of the hanging stones
ny vaults

I am alone now under the stone vault,
I'm alone among the darkened rocks

Here are the insinuatingly echoing s, s, w,
Where the desired serpent sweetly stings...

Used by Bryusov and others, more
sophisticated instrumentation techniques...

But still we have to admit that,
musically, his verse in
in general does not reach a truly high level
level.

With this we can finish this run."
short, abrupt remarks, the only
their new task was at least a few
lead the reader to the poetic technical
Nika Bryusov, and give the reader-poet
starting point for independent
more detailed investigations in this
areas - and which ones - we
we are sure they will be far from useless
for the development of his own poetry
creative technique.’ Does it follow from this,
that we would wish him to ‘learn the technical
nickname of any of our masters
verse—at least by Bryusov. Neither
in the slightest way. How can't you accept?
into yourself someone else's soul, it is so impossible and
adopt someone else's technology; you can only
imitate her, but only those imitate
who has nothing to oppose to studying
to my sample. For a true poet—to study
understanding the laws of other people's creativity

° covers the laws of his own creation
quality, unknown to him already
imprinted on his soul. This is apt
Yazykov expressed:

So GevY trembles joyfully,
He knows his greatness,

When it thunders and shines before him
Drrolo genius flight:

Mikhail Torov.

#2;

BURN.

Work Literary-Publishing-
Telsky department.

Literature-publishing branch
Valeya knife. other departments of Moscow
Nroletkult.

‚ At the same time, a concentration was plannedo-
the whole work is mainly in elaboration
Teletva and in the distribution of Orzai books
proletarian, but then the department was reorganized
nizoghan, and in oenova it rerrganized-
tion was based on the principle that prolegarian
art can develop only by acquaintance
having come to terms with all the values of the old culture
tours, consciously accepting or rejecting them.

Hence the need to organize
tions of a number of literary studios.

The organization of these studios was pursued
two sang: 1) to raise literary taste
working mass, 2) distance technical knowledge
to beginning proletarian writers.

V. pre-revolutionary literary time
taste not only of the proletarian, but also of the bourgeois
The public's level was at a very low level.
The bourgeoisie, itself feeding on Verbitskaya and
etc., and the workers ate romachi bul-
Warnock. "``There were few good kiigs,
access to libraries was for workers
difficult, there wasn’t even enough
competent managers by reading ra-
barrels.

In their literary studios in Moscow-
Proletkult gives the proletarian a chi-
I wish I could correctly orientate
wallow in the open secret for him now
the blame for culture in general and literature in
in particular, & also. develop your own critics
ical methods. I

A writer must be prolific
not only a creator, but also an ideal reader"
tele. And patching him up, and the responsibility——
very big. He's even more than unkempt
every reader needs to know literary

works of the past and be able to disassemble
wearing them in order to be able to

you have the strength to open the already open Americas,
using the experience of the past to extract
web lessons from it.

Lectures and seminaries dedicated to military
the requests of literary technique will be given support

the quest of proletarian artists in the region: ^

style of form. From the definition of these goals you

the need to split the studio became clear’

58
Z

No.

sa Pb-

45_

into 2 parts. One is general education,
covering the history of literature and culture
tours, second special (rhythmics, metr.
ka, theory of verse, prose, drama and
journals).

This studio shouldwas also brought together

between writers and readers. .

They were supposed to settle down with her
sessions at which the public was introduced to
would be with the works of proletarian writers
lei and would immediately discuss them. So
way, and readers would be accustomed to art
feminine criticism, and ‘writers no
would living currents be collective? |!

The studio opened on September 1, literary
interview, classes were first
daily, and the sales were reduced,
mainly for lecture work.

But for workers who are also involved in party-
duties, daily attendance
studio turned out to be impossible and everything was pre-
metas were divided into 2 cycles, each
it takes them three days a week.

Then the lecture method was also indicated
unsatisfactory; and now gradually
All subjects are reduced to seminaries.

Teachers invited to the studio
large forces, like tl. Bely, Bogdanov,
Polyansky, Sospovsky, Khodasevich and others.
Despite; That,. that the studio is functioning
Quite satisfactorily—from
total amount of zamisaviikhsya (about 80 hours)
the permanent core of the approximate
but in 40 people - its life span is two months
not a single oval is still missing to accurately
but to cover and define all requirements
life and give a result tested for
actually experience. I barely had to correct the un-
mistakes in this new business and—this
indicates extreme vitality
tasks set for yourself—to satisfy your
Life-driven requests, about which ru-
the leaders did not think when organizing the school
diy. Thus, journalism classes are almost non-
unexpectedly, they found themselves next to; special
classes in poetry two ‚!lazay-
mi poles of all studio work. In ka-
Nowadays we can say that smokers
journalism from the pedagogical side
left in an exemplary manner: these classes reduce
almost exclusively for practical purposes
bots in several existing bodies
periodicals (“Pravda”, “Kommu-
Nar", "Rosta", etc.), whereby they are produced
These classes are part. in the editorial offices themselves
‘said woofet. According to its content
the work concerns, first of all, reporting, and
chronicles, where the leaders proceeded

AC

from the position
We work as a newspaper worker, only
will be able to write feuilletons and editorials.
layout a newspaper, keep a magazine, etc., who
I know the magazine and newspaper business from the very beginning
Azov, Who has completely mastered the compressed, concise
kim, exhaustive syllable. chronicles, whiter
in fluent language, notes, response
one-sided reviews, etc.
Informing here the schedule of our classes,
we are fully aware of the lack of
His planfulness and uncontrollability were unbearable:
This schedule is not a sample of classes. whether-
literary studio, but only a report © "aaney

THAT ONLY He is the ho-

work. *

Noned.: 7Kurnalietics. Russian Lita
round 70-80 {

Wednesday: History of Culture. Theory t
ratio styles.

Friday: UKurnalistics. Ar 40
a,

I.
Tuesday: Pushkin's poetry. The theory is that

landscaping of the twentieth century.
Thursday; History of the Theater.
Noah Poetry.
Saturday: Poetry.
Sunday is given to both
sad for a literary interview on T9-

Abod theory

that water! the works read by the authors.

knowledge. These interviews taking place
in a cozy and free environment, spamval
between the reader and the writer, you
are zatros. collectively, and collectively
guide the very path of proletarian creativity
quality. At these interviews, more than anything

that one

attention is paid to poetry (and short para-

tales), and thus “literary
resurrection" are performed for the group by quietly
conducting the same role of practical and labor-
howl pedagogical basis, what. for chickens

owls of journalism are played by Nali Zhuryaal (de.

chronicle is performed by the studio) and porardi-
logical sadness.

Work in the districts has not yet yielded
tactile results. There's no way to s-
to organize a studio, you need to start with
literary circles that are planned
and Proletkult clubs.

At the same time, the origin began to act
tel. The goal of the publishing house is dal row ru-

kovodtv on issues of literary science
ki and support those pushing out her throatTara writers and what does the publishing house, ig-
Rocko, meeting the writers halfway, considers
greedy or and more n-
46. ov.

No. t

the diversity of the proposed works, as well as
says the resolution - literary-published
television department - must be published
only the best, only really
valuable, because the right to grieve is the right,
which is not given to anyone, but which everyone
must win for himself, because the working pgsa-
The tel is the organizer of collective life
‚ RI

First of all, the publishing house released
collection of proletarian poets “Fire Factory”
—And then he outlines a series of publications
on the technique of literature: “Etudes in Russian”
versification" - Andrei Bely,
“Journalism” - Brender: etc., & the same
“Poems” by Aleksandrovsky, the poem “Monna—
Lisa" - Gerasimova, "Collection of proletarians

Russian prose writers" and others.

N. Pavlovich.
2+

On the question of the training method
on the history of literature.

Before the head of history classes
literature, two questions arise: in what way?
to help the production of critical water
approach to any literary work
niya, and how to communicate shshiait historical-
literary information necessary for
beginning literary education for adults
break the worker.

In both cases we have to consider
Tatyya with a colossal busy auditing

ries and concentrate the work, setting the goal,
achieve results at the most cost-effective
circulation of time and effort. Therefore,
maintaining strict integrity of mar-
Kogotsky coverage of literary phenomena
ny, details are discarded, repetitions, changes
These typical phenomena are taken as examples
those in which the most prominent
The class ideology of the time has collapsed.

The general position that work must
it is necessary to build on the self-duration of the audio
°thorny, based on experiments of independent disassembly
ra of specific literary phenomena, remains
is, of course, uncontested. Center of the cha-
tin in seminar classes. Lecture or
will give impetus to work, or summarizes, con-
degrades the worked material.

To introduce the actual history
Rico-literary studies next planturned out to be very useful. ‚

Veseda “on the art of words”,

Samples of primitive speech are given. You-
the role of the word as an element of thought is being lazy

and as a means of communication. It is especially noted
the importance of building a business, scientific, artistic
pre-devout speech. Momont is emphasized
collective principle in the development of speech. Be-
samples of oral and book creative work are being
stva. Various forms of hu-
worthy works, noted
weakness, lack of identification of artistic
tasks in some and brightness in others. For-
the key word of the leader ‘decrees-
points to the evolution of speech forms In connection with © ob-
current evolution of the social economy

forms

Veseda “about artistic monuments”
words."

At the seaside of any classical production
conduct, will be carried out in the islorico-liga-
ralur analysis. Orledolletetsya isorache-
moment, the public opinion is being clarified
ideological chiseled, embodied hu-
pre-literary work, she draws
tonal picture, eras, is noted individually
other features of the author, both in style and
in content. Indicated from the moments of evaluation
ki monument by various public
groups at different times. In conclusion
the manager, summarizing the work, approaches
to the assessment of Pufis studies from the point of view of in-
interests of the proletariat, as the heir of the past
the loy and vorshcha of a new culture. |

Veseda “on the role of the critic in the creation and dissemination
expansion of artistic values."

Critic as an internalizer of art
values, most clearly and completely
expresses the mood and ideas of his class,
<your social group. Be it a critic
POINTS 3 I am pure art, or cri-
tick-publishes, sn, appeding to common sense
meaning to the general public, easily and completely you:
expresses her hopes, disappointments, admiration
vaniya. An artist without a critic is teat-
not understood by the broad mass of precisely those
layers, the spokesman of which he is angry.
Comparing examples of criticism, the Ogudi people
explain how the difference between critical
thought, and the foundations of the general world-creation
various critical movements. In conclusion
the reading section can be drawnI'm alive
picture of social life, where the role of cri-
tiki would have stood out especially clearly.

Such conversations prepare the ground for
taking a course in the history of literature.

Work on literature curreu becomes difficult
both time and the inability to get and

d A about you

AI

A.I.
b No. g:

BURN. cha

prepare materials for house analysis. When-
going to resort to excerpts, abstract
nal explanations and statements of characteristic
features of the past, then, as the only
the correct way is to disassemble the product
working together and through referrals and reports
the studio members themselves come to the conclusion
to the following conclusions. Instead of getting along
picture of the development of literary achievements
in full sequence, it is necessary
took material close to modernity and
do not dwell on mass phenomena,
how valuable they are for characterizing the era
were not. A bright classic memory is taken -
nickname that most clearly depicts the psychic
holyugia, to be, the ideology of the advanced layer
then the current class, and on it
‘research experience is being conducted. If you produce
The application is not cumbersome and accessible to everyone, it
prepares at home in such a way that-
everyone would highlight for the conversation: ambiguities,
contradictions or simply incomprehensible
catches his eye, then most clearly
some artistic moments, then
the central point of the idea and plot, the focal point
you are works that give rise to
indicate that the author belongs to the class
su and time, finally what it seems to him
the most interesting and valuable in all pro-
issue as a whole. The results of such
marks are discussed in conversation, ‘cherished’
general conclusions, different
opinions and tastes. If you couldn't listen
prepare for a conversation at home, then
The material is prepared by the director. Re-

the leading role belongs to the leadership
the driver, also, hack and any of
listeners. But the responsibilities of Ru-

leader in addition to the fundamentally
illumination of the literary phenomenon of le-
there is still a task to communicate compressedly and convexly
a number of necessary information related to
the literary phenomenon being analyzed. Emu
will have to talk about the connection between literary

currents on an international scale, he
will have to show what kind of organizational

‚ role in ideological and psychological

sense this piercing played in its time
knowledge, everyone met him mature
criticism of how his descendants treated him. And
the more clearly it will appear before the listeners
general picture of the cultural level of a given
time, the more complete their understanding will be
tion of a single monument.

Of course, quickly move deeper and
the breadth of history will not have to be done this way.

But deepening and systematically
work done on a small o''e-
material will give you strong general skills
© artistic literature, expression
cares about the approach to any literature
tourism phenomenon and will open the way to self-
solid reading, both fiction and
works of various times and peoples, so
and reading historical works on literature
tute.

The conversation plan should include co-
communication © various theories of historical
literary research in detail
the fundamentals of the eco-research method have been developed
nomic materialism. Criticism and journalism
statistics should be a matter of special concern
course, although it goes without saying that
history of literature without analysis, critical
currents is impossible. Experience has shown that
The male audience is very sensitive to class
definition of one or another literature
new phenomenon. Household details 5yu-
hi are also marked very subtly and
aptly. The most interesting question

in conversations is the question of individual

at the moment of creativity and the role of the team
throughout the creative process.

In the future it will be possible to publish
at least some of the recorded
new conversations.

E. Khersonskaya.

=

HER.
Theater

Construction of the proletarian
theater

Rotruves of concrete construction, ^ ©o-
nialism have always been in the socialist
literature in the background, because through
I had to devote too much space to the task
cham of direct struggle ‘for, socialisti-
ical ideal, which seemed, moreover,
became distant. Llook like a giant mi-
the Second World War and the outbreak of the world revolution
Lucky moved forward the construction issues
socialism, from the field of abstract theory
into the field of practice. I'm posting the same thing
given in relation to the proletarian cult
ry and proletarian theater in private
If a year © a little ago. © socialist
we said at the theater, every © business
future, and its forms and contents
Valee us only in the most general terms,

then now we can talk about practical
technical implementation of the new theater, in the very
close to Time. From ‘leory we’ can
must move directly to everyday life
new everyday practice. What can
be this next upcoming job, cash,
construction of a Roletarian theater?

First of all, it was necessary to create a proletarian
sky actor. Every theater is based on
actor, creator, how literature is based
on writers; PAINTING—on artists
it. d. We need to find out what, so far,
We are not an actor for the proletarian theater.

..%

department

We're just waiting for him. We are working
him.
„ After all, a new actor can leave the SM-
sa. In the Tvatra region.
like any other area of the proletarian
skoy culture, could brightly and completely
psychology will be reflected and the requests for new
class only in this case, please
The representatives themselves are the center of culture
this class

How would No. be a sensitive and talented actor?
Cher bourgeois theater, always yuetaneteya
psychological line separating him from
proletarian. , Professional actor, usually
imbued with a narrow caste spirit and yes-
away from the public, will not be able to
to be tossed by the sentiments of the proletariat or
open new paths and opportunities for
proletarian theater. m ki

Any attempt to create a bocialist

and NOT
tbatr shooting gallery PARADISE of the most brilliant
bourgeois actors will be just as without-
yoldna, as a similar attempt to organize
call, say, a socialist newspaper
either through the bourgeois ones. literary
ditch After all, it’s not really about...

y play well or correctly inter-
retract socialist plays. 'But-
new plays on the old stage ® formerly
them actorwe are not yet created
another socialist theater. Needed
a new approach ® Theater, a different system; ra-
bots, special requirements for the repertoire and
fulfillment - a different spirit. One Blov, co-

pad

put your best interests forward

Could the current actor-pr-
fessronal, this typical intellectual-andi-
visualist, not only to understand, but most importantly
deeply feel the new nroletarekiai
theater? no children. And this is already evident
zomu ireneb ereekitelnym, contempt, with
what kind of actor and the whole theatrical
the poet speaks and writes © “proletarian
culture", about the proletarian theater, about acting
something from the worker. class.

Of course it would be possible to collect
two or three corpses of professionals, his
speaking at the class point of debate, deeply
ironic communitarian ivyholo-
piya m zagoevnikh vova nekaniyah in
area of the proletarian theater. Such a corpse-
we could do something about co-
cialist theater. But their work will
children with a small episode, a separate butt,

_ which is, in essence, a single and

not typical.

To really create a new toato

and the world revolutionary Theater movement
life, you should rely on an actor from
proletarian era. Creation of the proletarian
of a Russian actor—this is the sad and main task,

I'm composing the prelstont howl. Teatral-

new breedings of “Proletkults” are loa-
pay attention first. just this one
care.

For this you need, but for example Moskor-
of the Yuletkult to create among the workers
ktartals dramatic proletarian stuc-
days that will absorb everything. prole-
Taz elements that have a gravitation towards
toatru and having dayal abilities for creative
honestly, in this area. All the grass must
become covered with ‘such cells, in which

will happen unnoticed, through ‘.

extremely important work in the development of new
Gogo Akchera.

During the revolution there was an intensified
ny guest of the workers' dramatic "Ruzeks,
which was a clear indicator of awakening
the deniya of your political forces, the proletariat and its

the desire to reveal oneself and in both
nekusetva. Unfortunately, overwhelmingly

the majority area lot of circles got into runes

‚ ki Tertiary actors - professional -

Yuv, who applied to the workers for the sake of their
vengeful or ties-glorious goals, perhaps
therefore fell under the strong bourgeois
influence of the worst kind. Many
working drama clubs went
slippery slope of amateurism, dirty
dubious}re-

=

26

No. 1 EE 49
_ to all the contents of their theatrical pertoire and here in a hurry, somehow.
acting., Instead of training an actor,

oshi Only corrupt and working magician
teaching ® the nasty tricks of the bourgeoisie for-
leaven and ‘encouraging amateurism, petty
vanity and frivolous attitude to business.

Drama studios need to start
raging fight. © by the skins of this
ira and their sufferings. But do it. this is

necessary. not by simply destroying the circle

cov. On the contrary, the studios themselves should
hiccup, wiping off ya supremacist circles-
ki. From studio drama clubs

they will take all gifted, zestful and serious
but work. The mugs will continue
exist, but the work is natural,
will be influenced by the studios and will accept more
more serious character, in the future more

useful members of the caucus one way or another
They'll come through the studios. And if now

Having become a studio, it is mainly stuffed
from members of existing dramatic
mug, then in the future the mugs themselves will be
arcs are created only from infantry who went
studying in the studio.

It goes without saying that the studio is puivie
It’s not just members of the circles who are toiling, but everyone
kelayuscho, 1e, who for important reasons (from
clutter of places, insufficient slenism
data, etc.) did not reach the studios, imo-
there is an opportunity to study while attending a school
as a listener and spectator, because in general
Puincipu, wide-ranging, navramor,
“Moskozekim Iroletkullum”, lessons and re-
The studio's petitions are available to everyone.
We reject the bourgeois principle
cipa, according to the cat, the true creation"
everything must be done in the secret places of the
bnnets ‘and relation halls closed to
uninformed.

To train in drama! 1-
chelic proletarian studios went onday
but, you will have to use the services of
sionals. Some may object
mono created actors span keatk-
ra with the help of theater actors’ Buryaguaz-
what? Won't he teach the act
bourgeois lestral art? These
fears can be negated by sitting down.
we will make a strict selection of namiah ted-
central instructors and you
socialist

Mainly. You gotta Tea
new youth who are more

ri! desire
for the sake of searching for something new.
will be able to give to the workers.

50
theatrical skill in the sense of standing
new voice, diction, declamation, knowledge
zomstva, s stage, makeup, etc. ., but she
in this war there will be no pressure on them
We stand in front of the actor’s template
nom. She is easily influenced by tobacco users
environment and even without being strictly commu-
stic, he will still be able to respond sensitively -
Xia on the requests and aspirations of prolotarlat.

PPPs of such an organization cannot have
place no fears, as if bourgeois-
your professional actor did not “ruin”, ve
“corrupted” the actor-worker. Rather on-
against; it is the working environment that hardens the ac-
tepa-professional, will enslave him to his
class ideal, will force him’ entirely
spiritually merge with the clan where he went
work as an instructor and teacher.

In loamatic proletarian studios
you will be a worker! first of all, training technical
nik zoatoalnamyu art. Tolke south-
getting along with her, you can really fruitfully
to work in the field of proletarian theater
ra. Every once in a while you have to hear cries,
that this technique is completely different for a working actor
need that this is a “bourgeois prejudice-
sucker." What. It’s enough to simply enter revolutionmon:
temperament, and everything else" itself
will follow. "The logical implementation of this
points. vision will plunge the young proletarian-
skoe creativity on the theater into the abyss of itself
destructive amateurism. After all, just
Many dramas take this point of view.
tic cages. corrupting rubechuyu
a lot of over-emotional, frivolous, 'thea-
trawling amateurism. We all need to
to fight against such neglect
cordial attitude towards school, student,
withserious work. We have to cry and scream that
the art of acting, like any other, is
there is not only one hobby,
or talent, but also serious, heavy and
hard work. Our requirement for everyone
performing and working in studios
must be great. The youthful society is obliged
sternly banish all superstitious views, dil-
letantism, approach to the proletarian ‘tealr’
"s-condochka."

Experience has shown that all opponents of the
tral school, as an ourgeois re-
zhitka, they themselves fall under the influence of the
destructive and arch-bourgeois amateurism
tism. Rejecting, as unnecessary rubbish, the existing

cozy tgatral themes and directions

wanting to “get to know each other ©” pedagogical
achievements in the field of scenic
technical technology, they themselves find themselves under
started at the five-weed, cheap pro-

BURN |

7 festoonism Or loosely ©
stva.

]

[

|

No. t

love you-

It’s clear from the beginning that it’s a blast
the theater, the Takh and at the proletarian theater
trawl school dolzhia worked out szoya
special technique
undoubtedly" from the technical arsenal of drill-
zhuaz theater, we must
treat Noah with criticism, shaming the land

new ways. It's the same as teaching
arithmetic or alphabet, we take it now
old textbooks, but only for the purpose of...
would use the past, but this
Well, not a minute doesn’t stop the ra-
working on new tutorials and
special teaching methods.

Studio work should be encouraged in
learned all their initiative and self-
standing. What kind of technical training will be
only a kind of literacy training, which
‘which will open up the opportunity for any lal-
the greatest work. p,

Therefore, let there be among the instructors
people of different theater schools and directions
niy, n› let them not try to counter-
act in a critical direction
minds evonkh students and, most importantly, let them
promote independent work of students
tssikhsya / After all, the task is by no means just
to preparatory-pelagogical. - Stu-
din are laboratories of new quests. In them
the first experiments must be carried out
creationproletarian theater. They used
new production methods are emerging, new re-
pertoire, a new way of working.

In fact, we cannot now clearly
and most importantly, in a completely concrete form, eka-
ask what forms the proletarian body will take
atr. We go to it gropingly, along the spinning top
Comrade, dear mistakes. For us it is possible, for example,
this theater is not mbzheg ter-
sing the autocracy of the director and the people of Ire-
news in fact kollektiniov ^ yabuchestvo.
‘exactly what kind of saddles’ we have to find out
thread in studios experimentally"

These experiments on new technology, new
methods of production should and puzzle
carefully with a labyrinth over the new repertoire.
How do you have to work out a nozago?
What about an actor, we need to create a new one
socialist repertoire. With reporguar
The work of the proletarian theater is now promising
extremely deplorable. Repertoire in essence
there is no news at all, it’s all the same as almost no
more elegant literature reflecting the feelings
the words and aspirations of the proletarians.

The number of authors of works, no matter how many
be close to the proletariat, contemplation of

>

Ro o eIrch
a

HEDGEHOG Y. Vx 5T

Well. Socialist nyeh are unlikely
You can find more about a decade or two
KOV in all world literature. At the same time
most of them cost very little
Artistically. This is just p-
nya: proletarian culture that’s what

is emerging. The Proletao Theater had

Opportunities to prove yourself, opportunity to
Vsvou classogom uspor uare only tenr

_ makes itself known. `

The repertoire has to be created
And for this, theatergoers and literary organizations
the affairs of "Preletkult" will be reversed
special attention. Need to reconsider
all literature in the repertoire. Next
Dusgchgoper now about vivat kolkursy nor drinking,
corresponding to the tasks of socialist calto ted-
Tra. Of course, such competitions cannot give
a lot at once, but they will still attract
vorcheskoz attention of writers to the queue
NOZY, NOZY task,

Until then; as long as this but-

YOUR repertoire was made using co-

Kroviniiku myaro-o1t literature. get rid of
No. 3 of her plays, close to the proletariat, ifand
not by the psychology of the characters, then by
by her YuzhZhetu, according to the volume., Plays of the heroic ha-
Taktera enoch revolutionary struggle vafod-
Nykh Mase, iesy social proteot and
Incriminations can come from just one family
in the spirit of the proletariat, but also to be ideological
In a purely pedagogical sense,

NYMI
Theatrical work on world masterpieces

the literature will be very legible for bu-
leading actors of the proletarian Tealua. In because
in pedagogical ways it is useful to go through
studios plays, even purely everyday ones, and not
heroic" repertoire, like plays by Go-
roofing felt, Ostrovsky, etc. n. Of course, I will
Let's pour out Chekhov's news and those about]
information where the meth is cheerful snly, moshio:
70 drama, bright character.
By staging nieces from the repertoire of bourgeois-
GO theater, at least heroic and revolutionary
inyugo content, proletarian teato
Iridas. they have their own interpretation, which
Roe, of course, bourgeois critics
call it "distortion". "Fuente Oveju-

on" Lop deNVega is beautiful with its burla |

the struggle of the peasants against the feudal lords, but
aiophsosis of royal power, which completed

° The play is being played around, maybe even in violation

M historical perspective, oteochon. or

reduced to, no. “Dawns” by Verhaeren, brightly reflected = -

tion of many sentiments of the proletariat, according to
<in its basic design are far from the mass

Because the whole thing is built centrally

30 roles of “theroy”, leading the crowd

pu and "creator of all events. Mri of the post:
The Zor army will have to destroy the clan of the av-
torus and try to nominate first
plan is precisely the mass, the crowd, to which the
dena ‘second-role role. *
The same year "reinterpretation" will go - \
Xia to perform when staging and others?
plays from the past repertoire. Using boo:
zhuaz theatrical culture, we crati- |
We carefully process everything and bring it into it)
completely foreign content. Old plays in
and those who are carrying this flying telephr will
It sounded like new radio productions.
Organizationally, the studio
must represent their role
istic communes living in harmony,
common life. Instructors intudii--e1o_
ONLY senior comrades. Take it inside
the organization of studios should be created
by their participants. Oboujakike - plan

a
o

work, choice of repertoire, work on
the performances are watched by the entire studio, or
by her chosen board"

——— all pea studios, composition-
vyat together" with representatives ^ students
a special board for management, all
theatrical work "Proletkults". Through
It is extremely important to unite students of different
studios for any kind of work,
nat., joint lessons and, especially, one-
no production, which will reduce to total
focus all the work of regional studios. Such

_ “central productions” (as they are called

ut) will be partially refurbished in
efficient studios, then the buluts are folded into
centers, Also staging plays with Bolyn
the number of actors will not be
only good examination islega-
a meaningful performance that sums up the results of the
In studios, it is known that the amount of time
me, > the main thing,” they will prepare
the way for true collective creativity
Honestly, at the theater.

When you're wearing dramatic chairs
“Proletkults” will be able to create several

If there are enough trained troupes, it is possible to
children to ask a question? about the use of su-

needs of the workers' theater" Then ovetsklya

‚mercury will have to provide a pro-

Tara corpses the best theatrical nemo-
her
: I don’t think it’s right to go to Cabdom
Only Yud acted as a proletarian of the tsalre.
on trupia. It will be more useful if the trushie are
will take turns, especially since we don’t’
must forget the seozy of the verb bady--district-
on. In No. ‘time I @> think (to
: m Hey

L

at first there will be slits on the runners
ism of working actors. When do we move on
strip r'vo. lyutsey and socialistcovetro-
Itel‘ will be with; fidgety in 0b>l6esyu-
under current conditions (this is unlikely to be eco-
ro), Fgda selection. most. gifted
workers, (as professional; ‘nationals, _bu-
det appropriate. “Now, at the first revolution
PIOPIO struggle, the worker-actr must about‹tl-
to hang out at the machine and under the gun and theaterlook
give away your leisure time. Just staying what?
BUT fused with its class
no matter how he fights, the worker-actor can
establish a new revolutionary spirit in ‚Twatrul
new creative.

Konechi”, the working troupes will give in
in its technical! perfect, in “school”
Leh, professional actors, but they have
there will be an indisputable precedence in the revolutionary
temperament, combat class psychology,
in a rush to something new and probably yes
same, gifted you" As in the field of political
skoy G KhbZYAYSRNo, unsophisticated and
workers with no training were able to
one year to reach the ruinous ussekhoz, so
and in the GFera of art, in particular theal›al-
no doubt, the proletariat can count on
significant achievement

Via Drama Workers
"Proletkultov" we will come to the conclusion
proletarian theater, which Revolutionary
downgrading? stage and creates a new theatrical
art, corresponding to the era of socialist
sky revolution, and the spirit of the socialist
society.

V. Kerzhentsev.

0 work of the Theater Department of Moscow
Skovsky Prolet-Kult.

Theater Collegium of Moskozeky Pro-
let-Cult arose according to the general plan
Prolet-Kulta’s work in the field of construction”
stva, Proletarian Culture.

It was organized from an initiative
group, which consisted partly of communists,
and some of the theater specialists,
those who responded to the offer worked
on the creation of the Proletarsky Theater. Ojeniow-
Our task is creativity, i.e. search
those forms of theater that would correspond to the
or new content. But before
to search and create, it was necessary to become familiar
to protect those workers who would like to work

2 GOR\

in war-

studios

No.

© us, with that theatrical culture, with
that technology (external and internal) that
which the theater of previous eras left us.
From here it follows that there is a need to tell the slave and
pedagogical.

The organizational side of this matter is pre-
put in this form: governs the whole
work of the Theater Collegium; to colora
includes, in addition to the initial group, in-
the constructors are mostly young
ray actorsMoscow theaters and other
putters from workers.

In all districts of Moscow organized
drama studio Prel t.Kulta; task
which to first familiarize students with
combining them with theatrical technical {drama-
tic art.

In each studio, all work is done by UG
special instructor—he is also a member of the Theater
Colleagues; his responsibilities come before his——
explore the area assigned to him. The point is
that after the liberation of the proletariat
from the price of Rabelva, his very creativity is about
I will also appear in theatrical matters. Almost at
every factory, every plant
Nikli drama clubs. But the point is
they were carried out chaotically, without order, by hand
The children of these circles were for the most part
provincial actors, rooted in hurray
faretah, alien to creative energy, is
were, in most cases, failures -
ki who got the opportunity to touch each other.
But the workers had no money, they
they groped their way in the dark. And so, in-
constructor of Prolet-Kult, having found these circles,
ki, informed them of the intention
Prolet-Kulta go to help Lyubutols
workers, and organized this chaotic, but
strong and inexorable movement of the flight
riat in the field of creating his own theater.
The instructor arranged a general meeting of these
circles and topics, outlining | or tasks
I started registering those who want to work
in Rtudia. In most cases there was no
what kind of exams and tests? Accepted
anyone interested, but he was warned
what if, they say, it is obvious that the dream is completely
completely unsuitable for the stage, then 0b elom
it will be stated directly to him, so that not
he wasted his time and would have tried to work
in some other area. ,

When a sufficient group was recruited
barking (30-40 people on average). in-
the instructor began classes, the plan of which
ry worked out in the vassalage of 'Theatrical
Collegiums. The entire administrative part of the school
diy Conducted by someone specially chosen by the workers themselves
committee. In addition, the studio members themselves arranged

foam:

No.:

and hold general meetings at which they decide
certain questions of inner lifestu-
_ diy. From each studio we select
candidate for the Theater College and he
‚ is a full-fledged member of the Collegium;
_ In addition to him, a representative from the Stu-

- dii and to the general Council of the Irolet-Cult.
` Thus the legislative body
_- Is the Theater Collegium, used-
The executive body: the managing department,
› Approved in general Execution
| ° Telny Bureau of Prolel-Cult, responsible
.  VYY Instructor-organizer, duties
which lies the general leadership of the pedagogical
“Tical work in the studios, secretary of the art.
| affairs’ and liaison officer © districts.
The Collegium identified these individuals from
| himself to the editing commission of the mother-
. Alov entering the Theater Department
_ ®general magazine Prolet-Kulta. But the Moro

s

foreheads are organized by the Collegium and
Temporary commissions to carry out this or that
no task. |

In the field of pedagogical work, Co-

“Tegia has already done something. In studios in

‘work has been going on for two months now,

No. for the following items:

r. } Diction, - zalach, busy with it came down to
`® to teach correct and accountable
RO GROW. at

2) Declamalia - teach to understand
the rhythm of the verse, in its post-verses, as needed

_ Read poems m vol. 1. There were experiments of the Choir
_ Aeklamashchii. ;

3) Nostanskha, gologa - put - voice
“So that the speech sounds loud and clear.

4) Nlastica—to develop freedom of movement
NIY and subjugate the mimic apparatus with them
Our will. Volitional system exercises

Yak Dalcroze and the Rabonek school.

_5) Make-up—teach when applying beauty and
‘wigs, highlight the characteristic bright
features, south image.

6) Decorative arts - with the help
our greatest means of achieving
`1ex or other decorative tasks, knowing
KOMMStro. © modern technology
my art, acquaintance © device
scenes and their various onstomies and 1. d.o

T) Stage - exercises - teach

‚_ Those who tend to get carried away by this or that scene

Cheskoy ask; here was applied in neither

To a great extent there is a motley of improvisations, allowing
KINY in allthe fullest manifestation of fantasy,

_Ingenuity and artistic flair

= One of the forms of these imvtrovi-.

and Zatsius 1 were charades played by the stu.

g `` calling In addition, the studio members introduced
k, I m | = . =

< s about os its E

%:>.-

BURN.

53

e modern methods of approach to work-_
there above the mountain. The basis of these methods would be -
whether ch. arr. works by Khudozheslvon.

theater, because they are extremely

gave place to initiative and self-identification.

8) Lectures on theory and toatral acupuncture
new art.

These items were distributed to the courts
Instructor in the weekly district, Iran
What was Whitman’s main focus on stage performances?
ski exercises (see “pulyalozhenno” in the con-
This is an approximate schedule of deposits). The in-
structor redot vo. in most cases
one or two courses (mostly in English)
exercises). L to give money to the rest
igedmetov poiglashalteya special assistance
you (who are included in the Theater Colle-
gyu), which serve several Wi-
onny studios.

But I already mentioned it to Ralyne,
We carry out only religious work

°dimesti, our main task is -

creativity, and the students themselves are workers
quite legitimately and understandably wanted
tirelessness yu issrezhetvennyu - creative
work. In a moment of excitement, the instructor
I tried to do everything I could. Tazh, for example, in
work is already underway in some areas of Moscow
over the yeses, which, when they are more
or less coherent, will be shown in all
areas of Mosotsva, & maybe virovin-.
tions. But these works also use the instructions
toryum in the sense of prazhticheeli, is-
mediocrely on the piece, showed the methods of working
bots so that: the studio members themselves are clearly convinced
in their suitability or usability, On,
next to the gratings of the studio-school village”
good work, but it still stops.

After these productions. Nye iprejula-
is going to arrange specially dedicated to them
Gechera, where would all the irksuteturing studios be?
you shared your personal experiences
critical comments. Besides, spruce
the plan for “second day ekektahley”, I will concludeexpected
ots in general terms as follows: students,
having seen the performance, not participating =
in Iem they improvise the Midian spec- —
takl according to those thoughts that they have -
What remains are plays and performances. The plan is
mediocre benefit

cultural and creative testing, performances, not.”
will undoubtedly have a big impact, hu-_
you're not baaain

new forms of performing arts. Say-
An hour has been spent working on the staging of the sti-
Vezharn's creations—"Revolts" and cliques
we-——“Don’t go”; in the beginning of these works
female method of improvisations, t, v. \ta en topics
the studio members themselves sculpt a number of sketches and
the handicraft instructor selected these sketches
rayuleya—thank you, very curious and
interesting forms of stage acting.
And here are the principles of collective creativity
is carried out in full.

These attempts naturally limit
chiveteya lyuka, creative work in drama
ical studios of Prolet-Kult, since the heads
Our new attention is directed, I repeat,

for a teaching job.
You. Smyshlyaev.

R. 5. We receive numerous
questions from the province © urosboy. help
ortanizoral and with them, on. places, theatrical
work among the proletariat, by sending and
constructors, lecturers, device end?-
tov, etc. We're not there yet; (taking into account
mania of our short existence) cannot-
Let us fully respond to these requests.
On the pages of this magazine, keeping in mind
mainly a province where there is little in-
structural local forces, we will share -
with our comrades, our alliance and re-
results of all works. About all their occurrences
any doubts, please contact us with any questions
go to the Theater Department of the Moscow
Prolet-Kulta (Moscow, Rozdvizhenka, 16,
Theater Department).

Approximate schedule of classes in drama
tich. studios of the Moscow Prolet-Cult.

(Evening classes).

Monday: 7 a.m.—Plasty; 9`h. --
Lecture on the history of theater: (or some other
according to theoretical course).

Tuesday: 7 a.m.—Stage exercises.

Wednesday: 7 o’clock—Diction and staging
fishing; 9 hours - Make-up.

Thursday: 7 a.m.—Documentary
9 hours.—Recitation.

Friday: 7 m. - Stage exercises.

art;

Saturday: 7 a.m.—Plasty; 9 hours—Diction
and Voice production.
Sunday: Excursions (for - inspection

scenes of Moscow theaters, in picture gal-
galleries, museums, promenades, etc.; n.) |. at

54 o. BURN.

No. t

Stage and visual design
private room for the studio.

(This article is a response to many

numerous questions that arise from the

small places where issues of theatrical
art).

I will try in a very short review
give all the most necessary instructions, 05
for whom it is impossible to arrange a stage stage
cultural institutions in the form of performances, #
thereby warning comrades against widespread
many tasks that can only confuse,
each technique, scenes, and the most creative
director’s work, and put off the
the decision to arrange a theater auditorium

We assume that we have been given premises
dimensions as shown in the drawing e19

The width of 12 arshins is completely ample
in order to arrange a price for m eri-
private hall, accommodating up to 400 hours,
with the appropriate length, of course.

For sleeping, it is allocated, as shown in

drawing, place 12Х12 arsh. with pyrtium
portal 8 arsh., with that said, ‘at the same time
on the sides behind the scenery there was
2 arsh. for free passage, artists and
necessary excavations. Ceiling coupling
arranged so that the scenery can
would be hung in any direction, and
Buluchi removed for a change of action, year-
hung ‘at the back wall to the ceiling.

Figures 2 and 3 depict two variations,
ceiling foam with hanging decorations;
the device is as follows: (option No. 2) per-
perpendicular to the portal along the ceiling straight
bars are sewn, between which
frames are placed, forming as it were 05-
a fine mesh, onto which the decorative elements are attached -
tions with hooks; (variant No. 3) or parallel
along the portal ‘scene at a distance of 1 irsh.
the bruskis are playing with the air from the ceiling
top 4 and feathers are applied to the groin
dredge bars in the required quantity.
No. by which the de-
Coration.

At the border of the stage and auditoriumwow hall
paintings made of cardboard on wooden supports
a frame is made along the AB line, as if for
within the dimensions as shown in the drawing -
same No. 4, this is the stage portal, for which
eye and a sliding curtain is hung, according to
possible high density,

I advise my comrades not to worry about pi-
holet and sew the necessary shapes from it,
sanitary decorations, and take canvas or

IE study

a.
bars. out of earshot penni/
Damn. No. 3.

\

Nbr we are anterior

RRR:

Damn. No. 4.

4949999955

56

which, being painted in different colors,
can complete any assignments by the author
Sy.

The hollows for decoration are sewn together
instructions from the artist and the necessary frames
doors and windows are sewn on for
assigned places. Cha gerkhney except polo-
Ten hooks are sewn on (next: Fig. 5)
with the help of which quick support is possible
yentivanie ‘on the grid.

Comrades working on stage pom-
belts ‘docoration, have two or three cash
length, in accordance with the height of the landowner, with

with the help of which the axes are suspended
mayuteya canvases.
Mouth and her to play at least sa”

I carry the most complex Sheksnirovskaya with the most
our various combinations of polo-
ten.

In conclusion I will say a few words about
auditorium, the structure of which is
latolno in such a place as this. shown
to hell No. 6., at the same stage level

SIRO RIO Little
arr.
PetoluA.
|
And th
and: |
kz. YOU 4 i.
yy
.- itya
outrages
sang. hall
Damn. No. 6.

ly and P's of the first rows and the towering
finally amphitzatra, which may be
and collapsible. A device such as an amphi-

theater is very simple, but the results
excellent in all respects are achieved
NIYAH.

If any inexpensive
zumenny and desirable instructions, I can
always answer with pleasure to a letter
a change to the address of the magazine "Gori".

A. Sokolov.

About the Petrogradsky evening
Proletkult.

May my comrades not judge me regarding
a few bitter but sincere remarks,
which I would like to share about in-
dramatizations of poetic passages from American
sky poet Wat Whiteman.

Production of such works- thing, not-
undoubtedly not an easy task for any bourgeois
different theater, operating for decades, and,
Of course, one could expect that she would not
the artists of the Petrograd Proletkul-
the one who has been studying not for years, but for weeks. But those
I want more in the name of the success of our beloved -
of the common cause to warn against those paths on
which comrades from St. Petersburg stood up.

With the curtain rising, the audience is presented with
there became a certain fiery furnace of cubic feet
ristic style, thickly filled with crimson
light, and immediately the external action began
event, a collective reading, imbued with
beginning to end artificial and strenuous
tambour-major mood and action
stvom. :

All the ladies were dressed in white, and the artists
apparently depicting workers, were extremely
look like Parisian Apaches in white -
shirts with red and black sashes and.
fierce faces who are always staring
wanted to intimidate someone, all that was missing was
pulled caps and daggers.

Hysterical cries and individual “voices”
the voices sometimes merged into even more shouting
great pathos of the ensemble. The scene was seething and cloying;

boiled like a boiler when the pressure gauge needle.
‚ crosses the red line, reaches the make-

muma, the steam whistles and moans, threatening to take off
to the air. 2nd
This can be good, there are times
when the human soul experiences something
similar. But, comrades, my soul was not
infected by this rise, this action, she
was not lifted up through the screams of the whirlwinds, but
Moreover, she could not merge with them. felt-
to celebrate their strength, beauty and revel in them. Not
could have merged, as it often merges somewhere
at a workers' meeting, where a certain current of struggle and
victories, impulses and passions permeate you -

From the editor. Not agreeing with the guidelines in everything
tika T. Gerasimova, the editors place this
a note to characterize the impression of the pro-
plagued by guests from the Petrograd pro*
Letkult on Moscow workers and in the
lyah comradely criticism, so necessary _
mine in the new business of creating the proletarian

theater

No. t

thousands of hearts, like a fiery hurricane, sweeping
soul toto the glowing heights, permeates even
then. when the crowd doesn't make noise, doesn't roar, &
silently with hidden movement and
listens to the speaker with wide eyes.

There was something missing on stage, some
inner strength that could give visual
pushes, shakes, despite the strong
the effects of some things were missing, and some things were superfluous
her.

And this is understandable: everything was too artificial
but it was felt that it was schematically
learned action by fellow artists and too
com the game and the scene were clearly felt. There was no
artistic creative impulse.

Loudness is a dangerous thing, especially in
our time, saturated with all kinds of me-
Schansky screams of a frightened man in the street, to
to which we are so indifferently accustomed.

It seems to me that there are things that can be
if you don’t read about yourself, then in any case
be able to read them so thoughtfully and wryly
feel it internally, but not hysterically
utter.

This is what I think of Wat Whiteman. South pantheism,
‘his soul dissolving and living everywhere
in all surrounding objects, in the sea and gra-
nits, when they sleep or ring, in great
tall pines, in modest wildflowers, in
all nature insistently speaks about this.
True, the vast majority of works
Whiteman is imbued with passion, and he sometimes
I want to roar like a buffalo under the tropical
the sun. But it will be funny with the scene
us. You need to be able to convey this somehow
other ways and means to force
the viewer to feel ›that burning offering
passion.

Hysterically - a loud paeos is not artistic
natural and non-proletarian in its essence
stvu, but purely intellectual, philistine in
spirit. The worker is alien to mannerisms, tense
number of words and gestures. We need simplicity like this
the inspired simplicity with which the worker

l al. AB 57

die on the barricades or in the battlefields
ny, without effect, without crude theatricality
ness.

The internally tense soul with its grave-
great silence against the background of the roar of guns, and
roaring distances, he speaks, suffers and re-
lives immeasurably more than everything that comes from
speaking well. What kind do you need?something special
conciliar simplicity and this should be felt
to be an artist, performer, director.

Strength, vigor, life do not scream about themselves, they
feel simple. In immeasurable distances
prairies, in the elusive horizons of our families
steppes, in the calm swaying of the sea,
you feel great strength, majesty, extraordinary
but the vast world, the inexplicable vastness,
striking in its mass, perhaps even more painfully
more in stillness than in a storm. Peace, everything
lennaya are strong and huge to the point of unknowability
limits, but they don’t shout about it.

We need effects that are not rudely external, decorative
tive, but deeply internal, psychological
skies.

What is needed is action that permeates the whole being.
like a current, we need a fiery current of creativity, pro-
soul-destroying and devastating. You can't
start and end scenes with hysterical screams
spitting, rude and funny in loud
lips, - it is not for nothing that it is said: from tragic to
funny - one hair. Need more natural
real, larger than life, the scene is perfect
should not be felt, such a spirit is needed
nary, effective intimacy between the viewer and
scene, so that it infects, washes away, so that
everything felt familiar, close, cathedral-
a new fusion of viewer and artist.

We need some kind of breath from the stage that
would make your eyes burn, hold your breath,
would flood the souls of the listeners so that
their impulses grew to melt in the bright rays
Spen - to create, play and live ourselves.

Mich. Gerasimov.

|
kompnaarya ZAM VU s. 2 years

58

Musical

. Tasks of musical
otdFfla.

Report on the activities of the Music Department

Moscow Proletkult, read by the First

All-Russian Conference of Proletarian Cultures
tour and educational organizations.

In its activities \Musical department
sets itself the following tasks: Firstly,
it is necessary to wage the most decisive struggle
bu © is very widespread in
of the masses with anti-art music,
something like: restaurantnal music, so-called
famous “gypsy romances”; vulgar songs-
=. dances, marches, etc. surrogates for music

and. This musical literature is
about the reflection of decayaspiring bourgeois
nogo system, which poured it in like poisonous
poison, vnarol. In millions of copies
all this was published and distributed throughout
this vast territory of Roseni; in sa-
in the most distant corners, in the open. scenes,
on the boulevards, in taverns, in villages, on
this musical sound sounded in the streets of the city
cavity. Millions of peasants and workers
were recruited: to become soldiers and here with copper
bami and barofans = almost forcibly blowing
pouring ourgeois poison into their ears. Various

‚predirinimaleli ivgocholi innumerable co-

number of gramophone records and, scattered
barking is “howl, everyone. all", produced in
sowing this in the most remote corners
Russia. 'r\

Through conversations and execution of samples i-
long artistic music, we will
fight this evil. |

Wash away this poison and poison, kill and destroy
living is, so to speak, a “musical body
canitalism" - here's the nala, barked) and we hope -

A.

o No. t

department

We consider ourselves obligated to help
try to fulfill it, for a born artist
exceptional taste and creativity. worker and
the peasant is already being awakened. We are
we see another onslaught of musical jokes
ties in a disguised form, namely: myo-
writers, former suppliers of drilling
zhuazno-philistines of some taste, given the moment,
will try to clothe their vulgar productions
deniya in the revolutionary coslum; they barely
people will try to sell their goods
home of revolutionary marches, anthems and songs
sen, but this one, so to speak, is right-wing
the onslaught will defeat ours worthy
rel.

Our second one asked to help the prodetial
master, as far as possible, everything truly
lozkeetveniym musical m che-
humanity..

Let us not be reproached for being so
way we want to impose on the proletariat
bourgeois culture; genuine art
national trochestro always. contains c. se-
be momonts of the eternal and imperishable.

Moreover, the proletariat, ached imperiously

took it into his own hands. creativity of life, ve`

needs otsoko: he will choose what
he doesn’t care, but his duty is nothing
without hesitating to give him a choice of what
nakhumanity has drunk. 2

Revival of folk art
songs, is, in our opinion, one
of the most important and difficult tasks of ours
activities

This picture is your collussal Sotals and
almost the only example of a powerful, number
lecturing, musical creativity, -bo-
galomvo, which kaltgalism lytaleya take away
among the people, and which rightly should be
returning the price to its creator.

For

a.

G ZUR

a.

We consider ourselves obligated to help
family to win back his musical heritage, and
as far as we are convinced of this, I myself
tarial’ desires this, this is his will. Native
musical language of the folk language - eet ior -
a new language that a creative person can speak
proletariat t

If there is French - international,
so it will be for the Russians and they will sing it
of his world.

Of course, it’s a folk song, but there’s a dog-
small and the final goal, it worked in other
other times and with a different consciousness, but in
However, it almost always sounded or something
about future freedom or joyful
rush to her, and therefore only she, understandable

people yessnya, is the starting point
for new musical creativity proceed-
Tariat. Of course, new forms will emerge -
Xia; new sounds and rhythms, city rhythms,
wars and revolutions - sounded powerfully in
a new song, and freedom, about which we sing
Before she was sad, now she will be; glorify.

Here we come close to the main center
whether the activities of the Music Department - and
all the above tasks are,
perhaps, to some extent, only mid-
you leading to 'her,

This goal is to promote and help you
the phenomenon of an emerging new musical
total creativity of the proletariat.

We must want to master the technique of mu-
musical creativity, help get out
howl the way for future proletarian artists
nicknames, performers and creators, having in/-

Du, both collective and individual

manifestation of this creativity. |

What will this creativity be like?
hour is impossible, it is also impossible to indicate
go into detail on. those methods that will
us to apply. Perhaps evenvery
it is likely that we ourselves will have to
learn. This is fully explained by the most
the nature of the work. Element of experience
in our activities must have a lot
places. ‘

Our work is labor, and we are not afraid -
Xia of those mistakes that will be encountered in the future
in the future, for the mighty creativity of the free
of the proletariat, will eventually find itself
the right direction.

Although the activities of the Music Department
I started relatively recently - but not
which work has already been done. {

Report on the work of the Department.

and the best and shortest way to get to
no

The meaning of the above mentioned goals is
eA

RN,

59

according to the pouring vision - ho_0z0e singing, I have-
total water allowance, enormous importance as an or-
organizing and unifying principle, like
artistic work on gasmonic
collective consciousness. Therefore, 060boz
The music department drew attention to the estate
on this side of the body, creating first of all the Sec-
tion of Good Studios, which took up organizing
nization in the ranonas under the Soviets, during the
fighting clubs and professional unions,
Proletarian Choir Studios. In these stu-
diies are accepted bezilalio all workers in-
interested in her music and singing; here's the catch
First of all, they focus on their musical
I thirst from the pure springs of the great people -
Noah sang, washing himself, so to speak, from the fact
the poison with which the catalytic poisoned them
sky city. ate'

In the studios they learn folk and r®-
revolutionary songs, incidentally © than presented
musical literacy is given, as well as
rutaya conversations about music. . `

Will be introduced in the near future
in nal studios courses in music listening, lectures
tions about ‘music with musical illustrations-
mi and, nazhonets, choral songwriting.

All ‘studio participants are separated by the usual
but into groups of more developed and less developed
musically twisted; perfect
but the undeveloped are admitted at first into some
people listening, but not actively learning
singing ‘in singing. Sometimes a unit
produced nude age (adults and children}
or by holoz (zhenek and man choirs).

The students choose from their environment 0oso-
former elders whokeep things in order
for careful attendance at classes, and
jointly © tystruktor producing
reception of new arrivals. Each student
Diya delegates her representative to (o-
Vet Proletkult. ha

The instructors of the studios are angry at the
the vast majority of people with higher mu-
lingual formation with the title ©freedom
artist, among them there is often a composition
speakers and conductors. Disengagement between in-
the constructor and studio members are getting tired
usually the closest ` and friendly, tah,
that the work is carried out in mutual interests
catfish and hobby. Weekly passage
meetings of the board of instructors are held for
comradely ‘exchange of experience and mablud-
mies, as well as to discuss new me-
Tods of anticipation. At these meetings
there are advisory members who"
with your authoritative advice. ani

common cause.
bo
At the current time, there are already thin chairs
there are 8; and have": 1) Blapusche-De
Fortavsky 1'., Vvedenskaya ill. God itno-

`you st., 12. 2) in Basmaen district. back again
2:3). in Rogozh. Ko-Simonovek r. Arcs
ner., 22. 4) sh Zamoskiorotsky. fr. en
iya, 11. 5) in the Sushchevo-Marninek river.
5-al Tverskaya-Yamskaya, no.8. 6) in Bo
r olekoch r. Bogorodskoye Shoess" d, Slvotokoy
tea 7) with the workers of the Needle. Zwau-
Tsoi Blvd, 5. and 8) 3 Butyrskot I Vl
Skaya UAZ 3. |

There will be an opening in the near future
“thulium-n in other areas; in general nothing
studios! prediodal then rose up to ’25.
Yaelyu ‘participatory diseases in infusion’ time ko-
St. 29 and 50 are included in each stutin; va
I'm getting tired of being fired by this
numbers. ha
Section of music classes is still ‘only
begins to take shape, its ‘activities
will be in 01 organization with chairs
classes forlepiatin Y, ekriznchny game and
solo nenaya for listeners with outstanding
niche with musical epics: In na-
standing time feedback posture forteniae »e
classrooms at Zamoskvoretskaya and Baemazhnaya
studios. In addition, it is assumed from
dig in tseytue class of special theory
music compositions. |
_ Febshiya peoples of musical intru-
‚ There are still a lot of cops formed, nrecently;
© we are open © center (Vozdvizheisa, 16)
figurative today willows on domras, guels
and ovnrelakh. Iri jellies have tag > vur-
we are inetructerosis. In addition to 10-0, students are open
lia in the Simonovsky district - Sumovskaya elobe-
yes, “Work House” and in Sushchevsky district. (bth
Trerskaya-Yamskaya, no. 8). Number of such studios
offered . lozestd lo 26-1m.

Domra-old, string tie rumemt,
mustache rlcenetvolanny G; P. Love you, t--
im. in such a way that the structure is completely ©: Uovkg-
exists. builds jointly and iottru-
cops. Orchest. or an ensemble of domrobla-
give a beautiful, olaoo nod of sonority and
besides playing these instruments from
offers such a difficult and sophisticated technology
nicks like ma string fiddlers, Dozra
nmoyuteya heel tnisv with tleseyvenno screen-
ke; viola, ‘gioloncelli, zenor-veloncelli m
kontrabz\, thanks to which they already know

Reading part: artistic and musical
no literature. Musical gave, and
seeing a huge role; notsruyu lomra, noo-

_ muiiio u 2 and play in the flight with rock mu-

its totally paid

zmkalkh plumpiness,

НБ 970 attention, entrusting the investigation of the sec-
tion Nar. Music In'tr. G. IP; Lyubimov.

Renertoire-publishing section of Music.
department expects to do. replenishment
musical literature barking studios. With this
the purpose of which will be to publish works and publications
sen, still from the leaked © fogolrafacheskie
vamlikov, or not yet tickled, or but
systemized. Moreover, with this
section already" there is a commission for the development
Botka conditions of competitions Ia eee
songs and plays, `

But coming to the end of the report, I can’t but
pointed out some sad phenomena,
with which he came and fell into
her work; the fact is that some, seh-
tions of the Department of Public Education, with
The Moscow Council repaired this or that
obstacles in our care, voledevio
what. We couldn't even do a lot of studios
open. Department of Public Education,
mainly Section of Hacked Clubs
stated that the organizing studios should,
belonged to her, and not to Prolegulv and
meanwhile he's up to no gooddidn't organize
studios where we tried and act-
but Darno would have already discovered them.

It was also extremely regrettable that
some newspapers printing.  for example,
announcement of various common pre-
craftsmen, traders, etc.; and., At 10 the same time,
refused to stop our announcements (yes
for a fee), depriving us of the opportunity to
rocky alerts. workers about opening
some kind of studio. There were also such cases
that © studio organized by lucky si-

`lami and erodelry Irologkult notified-

moose like © studio opened by Or
No way. Education.

'Mobilizations, closures of factories and, on-
the end, the trips to buy bread—that’s the end,
io, conditions: extremely unfavorable for
finish the work, but despite them, the matter
ours are moving forward and we are feeding ourselves
our best hopes for the future. :’

Music that teaches people to love the unknown
som, intangible “not of this world”
values—is a powerful medium tvm struggle-_
would © ethoism, materialism and others _
utoichenyayui types of social events; times-_
destroying them, music creates a new consciousness
without which it is impossible for man to enter -
flowing into the true Kingdom of Braletvai Svo-

Comrades! plant vejuda mu: language and
neniya, and in the dawn: Choirs—
Advice from the proletarian musical thought.

In her penny sleeps and E “

y.

the purest and most sublime are called for in the
thoughts of proletkultekh souls: in nom dey-
ki sounding streams pour out into a single
harmonious consonance; deyatki - hearts
beat in one rhythm and dozens of separate
gatherings give rise to intense, collective ^o-
knowledge of a happy future citizen
humanity.

B. Krasin.

From the Russian past
native music.

Among the bears of this whole world - first place
occupied by a Russian song. people: This is iri-
known to musicians who are amazed by the original
the charm and originality of the Russian dog-
neither. Since ancient times, then he created
I can’t bear it and... passing e@ from mouth to mouth, from
generation after generation, zealously
Guy, brought it to our time.

It is still possible to find songs in which
whose echoes are still feltpagan
times, and, listening attentively to the tact of the situation, in
my head involuntarily comes to mind: how strong
but the people must love her song, if
‘knew how to carry it through a long row of hundred-
anniversary, and save until your next day. Tom
it seems more strange if you know
history of Russian folk sand; and she has
have their own story, just as tragic,
as well as in general” the history of the Russian people.

In ancient times, when there was a forest
thickets and on the banks of the rivers Palney Rodyans,
statues of Perun, Voles and
other pagan gods and gray-haired, sullen
The people made sacrifices to them,
the song sounded free, and the singer was honored
face. More pagan rituals are accompanied by
The regrets of the sand and each god were composed
special penalties.

The songs were especially bright and striking,
folded in honor of the god of war and the sun
Yarila, the beloved god of ancient Rus'.
These songs, reflecting the bright youth
god, were especially lovingly guarded by nl-
come from, because, despite the introduction of new
howl of religion, the image of propshatamnogo salting
Yarily could not leave his imagination without a trace.

39.

BURN.

t

pumping; and Tue
the songs are loud with
nowadays.

But now, on the banks of the Dnieper they began to sound
sometimes songs, sad and gloomy, la-
kitties are far from the bright ‘and free Russian
bear it: this’ is from ‘the harsh Byzantines’
pioneers of the new faith in Christ. Oyan
they brought © new pesai and this is not
time for the parody song begins
opinions.

Servants of the Orthodox faith do not m-tli ve
go nowhere in the folk song of the enemy of this faith.
nbo slinkom lesno gzhilaey esnya g ired-
staging about the old pagan gods, kulg
which are not long, kept in the soul on-

exactly Yariliay
give birth to newborn dogs

kind. And so the pulpits of the pulpit were poured
denunciations against the song and the Nevts. Ise-
singing songs and playing music

nyh ietrumettah add it to
grave sins, for which in the future
there were severe torments of hell. But also the most s\-
ditch denunciations, the most formidable prospects
The torments of hell could not defeat the penalty.
it continued to sound.

Rhea human life. it cool down © pesvey: »
lanethe early days of its existence.
I heard Lesia Matori over my cradle:
his childhood games went on with song; in
The song reflected the experiences of his youth:
wow love and related to my sorrows and
joy. Peenya helped him in his labors,
it was not accompanied by all his rituals
wedding and finally the song sounded over him
coffin

Everything that the great maraud experienced 'for'
spanning many centuries of its history, limited
immerse yourself in song; he celebrated with a song
Lyubiyev therosv, surrounding them with speol: no.
fading glory, the song saved the war
his netorium. - |
`Somewhere, in the twilight of the monastery
gray-haired summermen sat and 3’ insygali.
long parchment scrolls of the ancient Ru-
si, but their work was the property of a few:
the dark, illiterate people knew their
the story of any of these yellowed parchments? and-
tov, and From a song written by him.

From horse to horse they wandered around Rus', with
with the reins of the blind guslars and on the eels, m
villages, on the rubble, near the taverns
and the wells sounded to the quiet ringing of the harp,
endless dreams and senile naked life.
tsa narrated the campaigns of the princes with their
armies against the Polovtsians, and about wild raids
The Tatars were reaped with the dawn and with a groan and a howl.
splashes, carried away into a crowd of people, and about thunderstorms.
to the new couple Ivan Vasilievich, and about the terrible
62

nom beast - executioner © blood-stained hand-
mi; Malyuta Skupatovo, and © free leader
Stenka Razin.

From these songs the people learned their history
for many centuries.

The persecution of the 'nesnyu did not prevent the people's
musical creativity to create everything new
new and new songs that have penetrated into the general public
the joys of life. Even a new religion, tied-
known to the people by Prince Rlalimir, the people pr>-
thought in his own mind in his own way and in
put it into the song.

Ket a whole range of so-called spirits -
verses that are not cerkos-
in a different tune, in which their creator
poured his religious worldview - ori-
tinal and original, cherished in
cut with the teachings preached by her soul
khorenetvom.

Ancient and medieval Rus' was not evil
only vocal music, i.e., performed
I think humangoalseom, available
she had musical instruments, to›-
which the musicians of that time owned
I bury it so much that I successfully kyumkuri-
was roved by foreign musicians, starting
shimi appear at. yard of Russian cue-
zey < ХР century.

Studying the history of musical intru-
cops of medieval Rus' were very difficult
due to the lack of materials on this
issue in literary monuments, takh
like music, as I already indicated above,
spent time in the withered trees
society of that time. Therefore, neither summer
the Indians and everyday life writers did not consider it necessary
mention this side of people's lives
and information from yu0b russian musical iya-
‹you have to look for details in the descriptions
foreigners traveling around Russia,
and, oddly enough, in the works
spiritual writers, where are these instruments
she is mentioned in denunciations of the light life and
in particular, the attraction of the people and music.

The most “zealous instrument of Rus'”, is
the harp plays. This instrument is often mentioned
found in ancient epics, and folk
fantasy put it in the hands of his beloved -
his heroes - heroes: Lobryni Ni-
Kitich, Sadko, Solovy Budimirovich and
'Alyosha Ponyuvich, what does it have to do with the epics of war?
Ievaeteya high art of these bogaly-
rey play the harp.

The harp in its original form was
a very simple tool and had everything?-
th son from 6 to 12 ton and spread on
two types: Novgorod gueli - carcass and
Tusli Simbirekie - Chuzash.

=

p" >: aa: yy t

sosh& iechyy =."

THORNE.

No. 1

The first type of harp and to this day the wind-
chaeleya in the north-west of Russia, where he
remained a primitive tool, chalk with
The number of stuns does not exceed 15; second

The same type of guels - symbiroky - significantly

more perfect and there are instances of this
th instruments, numbering up to 49-50
strings Newborn harps are being tuned
Liatonic, that is, their structure corresponds
the white keys of the piano, the simbirock is not the gusset
spruces are built chromatically, pa’put in e-
in halftones. Both types of gusli have
different origins and different dougot
otherha but form. There are many data for
assumptions that the Novgorod harp yoke
came from the Finnish instrument “Kalttele”,
very close in shape to the güells; sim7ir-
skies, no doubt of Eastern origin.
nia. one way or another, "mo gueli acquired
the right of citizenship in Rus' © very ancient
times and this instrument is fully appreciated
can be called the most ancient ivs.rumitr
Russian people

Second musical instrument duezney
Rus' is a whistle. This is a nano-rated instrument
playing the screen, which was played with the cap.
The horn also had a fairly wide width -
space in the nasode. Instructions
meet. I revel in epics. most" ancient
of its origin, so do the wind instruments and
satel starting with X| centuries,

In addition to the gusli and the whistle, the music of the ancient
Kay Rusl use” and some spirits of you
mi musical instruments. In literature
on tour monuments there are indications
on horns, trumpets, nozzles (evireli) and tambourines
us. Later a new instrument appears—
"Demra".

Instructions related to domra, we import-
we meet » spiritual literature of which
tsa 15th century and further about it
often mentioned among a number of spiritual
nisaleley, which is undoubtedly proven
the great popularity of this tool.

Domra is an oriental instrument and there are many
th data suggests that they brought it
to Rus' the Tatars, who generally instilled
the Russian people have much of their culture
during several centuries of his reign
quality over Russia. g

Domra did not remain, of course, in the form
In bed she appeared nervously. Rus':
the musicians who accepted it remade it
but we adapted it according to our stand
they need it, and since then this tool has been
becomes more widespread and local
nullarnoet.

In ancient Rusn there was a special _

RIO CHUGE

in" >
No. t
class of arts.ov profeesiocals - skomozokhs,
otherwise called “happy people.”
Skomorokhn wandered around Ruen group and on
fairs, bazaars and just taverns
whether your impromptu performances,
always’ accompanied by music.

Buffoons widely useddomras

and there is reason to believe that this
was their favorite instrument.
History gives us indications that the house
healed in the Middle Ages, reached quite
great perfection in his art
and. that there were whole choirs of these
instruments, and they included domras
of different sizes and structures.

Proof of quite large achievements
the husband’s housekeeper serves and that circumstance
the fact that they competed for a long time with the European
Pei musicians are undoubtedly very
to more cultural. It is known, for example, "
that at the court of Alexei Mikhailovich, on
next to German horn music and even
organsm, the choir of the Domoro-
whelped domracheev, not the least embarrassed
presence of more cultural and possessive
neighbors with great opportunities.

The buffoons were distinguished by their violent temperament and
extraordinary slander and otroelo-
viem; their improvised performances in
or the nature of satire and most of all to-
bequeathed to the clergy from them - they became
To my enemy. The clergy with their hundred
rony waged a ceaseless struggle against the
rokhami n in those cases when it was
strongly, the buffoons also had to (yu-
womb.

Persecution of music and buffoons has reached
at the highest voltage at the end of 16
and 17 centuries, and the most severe persecution
lem appeared, Patriarch Nikon, following the instructions
whom the buffoons were universally expelled
and beat them, and broke their domras and burned them.

While Russian musicians
despised by the church and the authorities, they languished in
some existence and hardly left behind
evo primitive instruments, in Western
Ebrone was doing a lot of creative work.

The great musicians lived incomparably,

‘more favorable conditions. Then, co-
then the Orthodox Church denounced music,
kah night of hell and threatened the musicians with hell
<what torment, the Catholic Church shi-
Roko used music for her own purposes and

‘provided full support to the musical

there. Thanks to the patronage of the church, mu-

‘language’ of Western Europe has successfully `developed

Ha

BURN.

.

curl

63

was improved, and at the same time improved
and musical instrumentseats of the West, and in
their growth very quickly outstripped their
Russian comrades.

The last blow to the Russian musician was
inflicted by Peter |, who in one movement
West planned to transplant his hands to Russia
new culture. Crowds of foreigners appeared
scientists, craftsmen, sailors and musicians
Comrade }

Peter cut off the boyars' beards, cut off the long
the flaps of their caftans and by force became
them foreign sciences and arts.

`Irezhnye feasts © peselnikami, domra-
chemi and buffoons were replaced by fashionable ones
assemblies; appeared at the courts of nobles
orchestras of brass music appeared,
most of the European musicians; and domoro-
whelped lompachey, ousted from the boyars
chambers and Tsao palaces—went back to
village, dissolved among the people and there
They took away their domra and gubli. Since then
domra began to disappear, to be replaced by
a balalaika appeared, much more
fewer opportunities in music
respect, but which is nothing
otherwise, kah spoeched and vulgarized house-
poo, proving by its appearance that
the art of instrumental music has become
fall in natod.

It’s hard to imagine how sti-
the penalties of society would reach the musical
instruments of medieval Rus' and ca-
what paths would their improvement take?
if they were left with food
the ability to develop freely; but at-
It should be noted that these Internet instruments
have an undoubted value in the sense of stealing
honeycomb and originality of timbre, and if
work on their improvement was completed
brought to completion, then these tools are outside
if you could contribute to your family well-
European comrades. to

Over the past 50 years, a number of attempts have been made
to test musical instruments
cops of medieval Rus'. Some of
they turned out to be quite successful, others
were not successful, but still
this work should be continued, not stopped
pouring in before failures.

But before carrying out this work, it is necessary
select the tools that have the most
great musical value, & such be-
Of course they are domra and harp.

Gr. Lyubimov.

———bFb————
Image departmentcreative arts.

Tasks of the Fine Arts Department.

In the history of mankind there are moments-
you when one line of culture takes off
la ryenmei of your point and’opigav the arc, ma-
gives, & drink, after her, begins
line with the foot of culture, ‘Opa ideg at the beginning
like bulto down and nasal, #2 is oasbeg 1
sing arcs. Between two points - the beginning
one line and another computer connected
vortex movement, carriage. This moment
there is a moment of revolution, and we are new to it
we are experiencing.

; knowledge of the field of view - two ways. Let
these de linin in tsevtoe are apparently close
to each other. One does not match the other
never. There is a gap between them, and moreover,
between them there is an ornate vent, in Koshchoro. by-
one melts down, life lasts, and from 10-
grow res that which is not of the fiery nature.
Who can bear the run-up of the new arc of the mountain-
burning from the fire-breathing furnace of revolution?
Sons of Fire. Olya rises from the earthly
kingdom, where in the darkness they forged
esRy world. They're heading towards the white light
the horned truth of the earth, the red pfavda
Teza. They carry their fire to 0009 and\but
need some light from the sky. Fire-
when we listen to our forges, they illuminate him
dome,

We have heard underground impacts for a long time. We
listened for a long time to the argument between two gogos

owls One vote. said: “children, I created.

you from the earth, you are alive’ by my breath. And
I will bring my creation to perfection.
Without breaking out of the circle of my will, the earth froze
no, a beautiful icon, a monument to mo-
oh beauty." - Another voice cried out; "yun
garii; The thief just wants
steal your life ‘for yourself. He put on
blindfold over your eyes. But I’m sorry yuo. He
wants to turn you into statues, but I'm for-
I burn the fire of passions and my own in things of blood
troubles; you will be masters of the world, kovacha-
our destiny." those

And we heard the rumble of millions of responsible-
our voices; but we heard a clang. tse-
drink and lament. So we listened
geeks to the dispute between two voices. ``

Now the grata has trembled, and the talkative nervous
gyum - blew it off. People rise © otbhe-
a cloud of red fire in the eyes. The world is in danger
death. Some run, clutching.for pükrov from-
holler for the spirit and hate and stoash =
burrows of fire, others possessed by the spirit of o’oda,
go to self-will, not seeing each other. But
we hear the third. naked, ion says:
“Brothers, form a circle! Scattered
Goli do not build lives. United Olya. lit-
naya in each of you and then in all, one

The goal of humanity will save the world. Like a column

we are tearing apart the dome of the temple as one, so
you see on your farts the dome of a single spirit,
Vanya ancestors, in joint care raised-

Monuments of superhuman power were erected.

But the slave worked and died at will outside

his skiing spirit. „The spirit of fire torii in

you, you are not slaves. But this fire
if it does not burn for what it eats. Boalha,
close in a circle; I'm inviting you to
joint harmonious work": And we hear-
itim, kah this same naked one was honoring the fact that
strive to hold ° by the cover while retreating:
current time: leave the dead to bury the new
their dead.

Standing on the vortex movement of the sky
me, and called to the work of ‘construction,
we must clearly distinguish the signs of the two
close to each other in appearance, and on-
always diverging lines. Much of it
which seems advanced at first glance,
there is only the end of the old, and much of it
that ‘which seems to go down and back,
raybeg of the new arc. Fovmy manifestations ez0y
new life can frighten them with their Vaduval-

will devour the world,

stvom. They may cause disgust and

contempt similar to that which aroused’
Catacomb art among the Romans. decline.

> yy

t ny 5 8. 56

E her

aa aa and
No. t

th

| Forms of ancient classicism perfected
ancient Christian art. Notosis
begins {6: perfect. Power
European art was born in the dark
note of the catacombs, in the forms of helpless and
strange.

Of course, the strangeness of art forms is not
| there is also a sign (of their sublime novelty.
]Opi can also be a sign of decomposition
nia. There must be a different criterion here. We
must ask ourselves which elements have
are expected to die, which, having passed through the purity
flamboyant fire of revolution, wild B
new culture.

A new way of life requires collective
Gabout creativity. What can he get from
idivihualvotic culture? Thanks

to her, man has crystallized from his surroundings
on Wednesday, closed in on himself; in
I found my own idleness, rejecting the imposed
| the vomiting 9 religions and morals given to him.
Relying on your free
thoughts, and would and ability

to fight.
'° But along with < by this he isolated-
Xia. Every time, having my own task,
| has its own ‘hooks’. Isolation from the center
logo, subjectivism, anarchism © one hundred
| rhona and with prupoy - these are two slopes

Glena's culture, which

dolisna, burn out.
| Strong, having built her own center within herself. personal
| ity, now must, through this center of acceptance
to be part of a single knowledge - the collective.
“The seed, unless it dies, cannot live.” Individual
dualism must die because young sa-
mostien (anarchic or bourgeois), but
through him and only through him can we Ver-
but approach collectivism. Collaborative, сх
| standing from people who are not strengthened in their

| Center - will lead either to a breakdown in the herd,
| In the old group on internetinct and hyino-
3rd based being, or to mechanicalness

building a soulless and faceless person-
| century.

| philistinism, on the one hand, and etadnosy
and mechanicalness on the other hand - we must

new life for us here

What is this PC like in the image?
Creative art in particular? {
Things are going on © namale proletarian cultural
Tours, about the collective Oe Neta Tiwi
|| Riata. From rough steps
| This is because of what is alien to this. pete
_The opportunity for a new spirit to manifest itself and creativity
_ Places are the primary goal of our department.

H

RN

Between these dangers the anarchists and’

go to the New Culture. So wet - ‹

65

It is possible to master the language of craft,
without foreshadowing its forms and tendencies. You can
thought that representatives of the proletarian
Klayus, who went through the harsh and serious ikkola
the new truth of the earth—they will bring it into art.
I think the form of will will be in opposition here.
set to arbitrary forms. What is only clear
and concrete, like a crystal, spiritual right-
now, and not the fantasy of subjective experiences--
niy--- we need it.
Pursuitartist characterizing
end of the old line, was to stand out, not
be like someone else. But the greatest pa-
Mythics of human art, were an-
nimny. The master who supervised the construction
The Gothic cathedral is never known.
A strict line of new art, I think
us, will require this harsh retaliation
themselves.

| Stang ‘painting’ will go away. Need to
children's bedspread large planes public

| buildings, destroy the architraves and its

| ny groups.

Working in a team, everyone must
be a creative participant in the work. Kazzhkdyy
brings in a beam, refracted by his individual
duality. Unerased individualities
united by one living thought, complemented
nagging each other, go beyond the sub’
tivism. Working on any poster
scrap leaders are masterful and studio members,
together we seek to identify the emerging
lecture of a living idea. She must have realized
yourself in color and internal rhythm inherent
combination of these colors. The color doesn't stay
motionless; from rhythm comes form and
form receives its
the rational one has washed away. In this way he embodies-
being a living being of thought, born in
consciousness of the collective.

Let the Nazis initially work
workshops will be m 6. m. monsters
us. The new does not come in perfect forms.
max. The court of aesthetes, which made art a service
inhabitant of our instincts of pleasure, we
indifferent. The matter is more serious for us.
Art is a creative word that creates
life, and we are its servants.

We know for sure that he who laid his hand
should not look back at the ilug, but what in

- old wineskins cannot be filled with new wine,
practical implementation of the pro-
Letarian creativity is said in the appendix -
mom here project © mauterek for business
from stenendiate factories, pre-

lozhennyum and vk ai our-
of M. mines,
5
66

GE:

No. t

Plan for organizing the fine arts department of the Moscow

proletariat.

In view of the fact that all the beginnings flew by
local organizations in the field of visual arts
art, do not achieve their goal, tah
how workers engaged in factory work can
gut posbabbled for two hours
to its gorge beginnings, from b-aziel-
ny Department of the Moscow Prolotcult Echi-
It becomes necessary to implement the following
organization, its department: Imagining” -
telny department of Moskogekotso Prolzhtvuleta
via Executive Busot, Tseztralny
Committee of the Russian Proletkult". and’
its ‘representatives’ is in contact with
trade unions of workers and trade unions
invites them to be sent to Proletkult ra-
workers, various specialties, such as:
teketilshchikog, ‘weavers, casting schikoz, etc.,
having a penchant for depiction: omu and-
art.

Seconded workers are in education,
those of professional obligation and Pgoletkul-
that; p are engaged under the guidance of Izyubr-
of the Mostiussky Prosetkul-
ta nu any - ‘either of the lskusetv and name-
realize their meanings and creative powers in
non-art, as such, and also according to that
specialty that constitutes their profession
fe°siyu: Thus, the construction workers
at the same time can be to the architect,
artists, weaver workers, sad people
Gut to be at the same time the artistagi - lively
piets, foundry workers, chokaists in
at the same time they can be artists - cool.

`itors. Kopechno. it might happen that
the weaver or printer will turn out to be a sculptor,
but this does not change the data at all.

All posted workers; ‘passing
Iroltas School of Art, Svovl. io-
banging in the air of professional
‹‘unions and form in contact with the Image-
special ‘department of Proletkult’
organ, vedalotium by Proletarekim Depict-
significant art,' in the Rezrosei 'mos-
titabe, organized by factories and factories,
which are in contact with any of
nskueetv, art workshops from
proletariat working in production
with the aim that the flyer could:
show your artistic and creative abilities
ability in objects, made by them themselves" -
us, and thereby oust us from the mass
production: and e markets bourgeois .“hu-
dostvo", which is planted with such

no

persistence of the bourgeoisie, takingkeep it to yourself
monopoly in this area. Progetar al re-
decisively and irrevocably must stop
bleaching the bourgeois taste, izgo“@e
pouring art objects as directed
bourgeoisie.

The liberation of the workers is the work of the workers themselves.
bochih, and we are confident that the passage
Tariat, creator, in all areas of life, about:
showing his creativity, and chapters 20°, but "about:
bringing it into life, thereby driving
drives a wedge into the deepest crack ©
permanent capitalism. It's such a pity
a formation that breaks even the pecha; new
case or calico, clearly indicates,
that the bourgeoisie is not able to approach you =
carefully to those items that are
worker because it's ge gho t in
interests.

the noble taste of the bourgeoisie should
expelled forever by the proletariat from the factories
and factories, and the proletariat itself will be able to create
art, its forms - and piyuto, except
he will not be able to bring them to life

Not for’ exhibitions, not for special occasions
carry the proletariat. yours. creativity, n” for
dig it in museums - cemeteries, ‘and that hall
years and factories will the proletariat manifest itself?
creativity, and, having murmured it into life, py"
carries to the street. On the paths of houses, in the pred
metas produced by him, he will reveal his
‘artistic. creativity, love, everything"
lethari talked and understood each other
ha; in his art, |

As in factories and factories
workers artistic part of the ulcers
they will take control of the work of the plant
factories will be the creators of objects, from them
prepared, and thus will receive a cart
you can demonstrate and, most importantly, fight
and live your creativity.

Chioby from the first birds, with enough Yu! ‘©
to identify the emerging proletarian
creativity and use for this purpose
all the possibilities that exist in the race
by order of the Worker and Peasant on Pra
government, Fine Department of Mosco?
“whom Proletkultal offers plug cf
nization, for the implementation of this
bypassed and into the next life
o

 Prolotcult must be given
r.

the required number of masters was given to him
skies on the premises of the Statebeats  free-
ny artistic and educational workshops (formerly
SOtrogonovskoe district and ‘uch. painting, sculpture
and architecture).

2. They have the right to study in workshops
only workers

3. Proletkult workshops are autonomous and
controlled by the center of the Moscow Prolet-
cult, representatives of students, and pro-
fair unions.

4. Trade unions delegate
workers, various specialties for
activities in the workshops.

5. Delegated workers are registered
by artists from Moscow art workshops
of the Proletkult, are registered with the pro-
professional union and receive their due
wages at the expense of the plant in which
work, and are freed for a while
given from carrying out factory duties.

6. Before entering the workshops
Moscow Proletkult, workers pre-
work really hard at the Moscow School
Proletkult and upon discovery of a tendency
passion and desire to work are translated into
workshops of the Moscow Proletkult.

7. During the period of work in the workshops, workers
may have been sent to certain
factories, each workers-artists and inetru-
torah in one specialty or another.

8. At the end of the workshops, comrade. workers
are once again at the disposal of the professional
national unions and are delegated to factories
Ricky and Vavoda, getting in touch with
Proletkult to the organization of artistic

noi stafona and volitional, attractive commodity

willing to take part in this and showing
collectively their creativity and carrying it out
into life. ,

In the project described, of course, it can
be many shortcomings.

The main objection against such a project is
The situation will be that it is impossible
but take everyone who wants a scholarship.

You can answer this as follows: payment
Of course, you can call those who want to, and indicate
click, for example, on the device of various
ny courses, where cadets, somehow teachers
and so on, enjoy a scholarship through government
Sudaretva. ‘

So in the proletarian university there is
a whole frame of steamendnals —— therefore,
such an opportunity can be provided
and workers. .

Regarding the number of people willingx, co-
which can be very large, we point out
the following: firstly, a working day in Ma-
sterskikh is established in no way less
8 hours, and in practice it will probably be
you have to work and’ more, then you have to
the importance of visiting workshops will clearly indicate
delegated comrades, that their relations
Pay close attention to your classes
tel. Then this question can be’p
technically settled by establishing an obvious
in case it turns out to be necessary
Dim, u

Of course, there are a lot of technical additions
character, can be done, and Izyu-
brazilian department, will treat with deep
gratitude to every useful replacement
from comrades.

Print of the seal of the work of S. T. Konenkov for
curtains to the memorial plaque.

I don't know
`_
S.

No. 1

To the sculptures of Konenkov.

The Great Russian Revolution, shook up
which destroyed the old bourgeois way of life, expanded
and before art there is an immeasurable feast
and distance. In what state, on what Vem-
nom hemisphere we will find something,
vaguely similar to what is now ripening,
accumulates and grows in the creative depths
newborn Nossia. }

What yesterday the best people thought and
art was fascinated only by every golden myth
distant future, - now maybe already
clothe yourself with life-giving flesh and let
on this path there are judicial errors, falls -
still one, the thought that we are already standing, almost
At the veil of a centuries-old dream there is always a

of eternity, fills the heart with a new, unknown
given joy. .
Into art. new life is included. Thursday

the next day, which forced the artist to
looked at life from behind the corner - went out
forever!

Soviet order to Professional S®-
Yuzu Artists is the first, the most successful
step on this path. #Two of these fifty-
these monuments to the world's leading figures of art

AT LEAST °

thoughts and revolutions will be deserved
pay attention to only five, & the rest
I will have to clean up the square with shame, -
important, a new stream into which it injects
creative life of an artist and she suzat
broad achievements in the future.
For, every artist, with
free competitionnovation, given
opportunity to reveal your creativity
person and provided with a minimum of physical
moral obstacles to implementation
creative plans. It is also valuable
that at the beginning of work as an unknown, only
but still a novice artist, tah and already
stages, his comrade was determined, eta-
are exposed to exactly the same conditions,
which destroys the disgusting “academic-
Generalship" in art and art
creates a clear path for everyone, but
understand himself as an artist. ›
The photographs attached here are © work no.
Nenkova, are a vivid illustration of
everything said above. First three pictures
pre-detail sketch work - (figure
Stenki has just begun) on the monument
Stenki Razynu. The monument was conceived
it would be broad and more accurate to say that; this is @e
it will even be a monument in the old village,
since © this type of sculpture is
art is united by the necessary, inevitable

conditionally
wide

formality, exhibition, ho-
cold, frozen, rhetorical gesture+

lation that always lies hidden even in the best
European square monuments, - ©ko-
gay you can call this work Konenkyuv
poem In the tree and, ‘perhaps not even. o
Stenka Razin, and © to all the Russian people.

After all, the story that put us on our nerves
Konenkov in sculpture, who received deep
some flirtatious expression, in all its
works of the old Russian cycle, vepug-
nurturing a few hardened routiners from-
attractive, cold form, - magnificent
element, perhaps for the first time, guessed by nalcim
a sculptor even in world art, In it
the form itself - like a fluid, full-voiced
rhyme, and ekulttor -1 as an imperious poet!

In “Stenka Razin” this is especially vivid.
All this valaga, captured in such diverse ways,
but, © ‘amazing knowledge and comprehension
Russian historical person, Stenka himself.
noble, transformed, as if purified
recovered from the scabs of the usual and transient
shego, personifying the powerful spirit of Russian-
of the people, this princess, kah dream, slave-

|
|

V. EQUAL-AVY

standing ‘at his feet (the artist’s intention) is not
is there any, melodiouspoem, wonderful story
about the Russian People!!!
Another commissioned work by Konenkov;—Herod—
here in the photographs is a memorial
sy in memory of the deaths in Oktyabrskaya
‘evolution.

re - after all, quite comparatively scanty
requested by the artist

nal means,
irresistible savings on this: work, p

very short period of time, more importantly, no
stopped and did not disapprove of the sculptor, in front of
performing a rather technically cumbersome task
what work *).

The artist piled clay on the floor, kneaded it
her (another flock would have lived for three years),
like they do in a brick factory, and

Working day and night, with the usual,

the mastery that was given to him was accomplished in essence
technically, Due to the short period (1
month), an almost impossible task.

Board: presents an image in the center
fantastic figure with wings, spreading
laid behind, behind, as if from wings -
mi fairy swan flying on, ran-

at the dawn of humanity, - in one hand there is a dark

| paradise Banner on the staff with the Soviet Ger-
› m ai on the pale graves, pe-
covered with mourning ribbon, © broken
kami and shawls, in another green,
palm branch extended towards the heart very
with a broad and natural gesture, as if
as a sign of the coming victory and eternal bralett
and the world of nations.
Behind the shoulders of the gravestone Guardian there is a milestone
the Sun, whose golden rays are eyes,
Elaborately arranged with the inscription:

BURN.

69

October 1917 revolution.

The colors of all otonea are very delicate and
harmonious, and the whole 'board © is purely decorative -
creative side will decorate and revive the old
The Kremlin wall.  \

Konenkov handled the edge very subtly
sky, guessing its general, shaded scale
(the gloss will be placed against the monument
Minin), wherein the great danger lay:
in the hands of an inept and inexperienced artist
chica would only turn out to be an annoying gift in

_ internal
coloring of cement, the jaw will retain the bas-relief in
in its present form, if not forever, then at
for a very long time. This work was
completed in approximately three weeks,
now it's time to install cement slabs,
into the nest, which will be completed by Octoberbr-
celebrations - but it was necessary 1yu-
look at Konenkov himself during
work and listened to him to understand
what a crazy amount of energy it costs
to the artist himself, literally confused
I have my entire cement and mortar workshop
sea dust. In the picture there is a board behind-
grabbed while drying on the floor than
and the shortcomings of this photograph are explained, so
as a photographer I will have to mold myself under the
really. At the beginning of the note, it is presented
a signet married in a picturesque locker, for
sealing the curtain for the entire time until it opens
monument's style - cunning, frontal
detail indicating great
love, which the artist treated

to work. *) : :e
Sergey Leshenkov.

—=...--

k. Fight. 7x 8 arshins; cast from the dead
Tsemevta.

26

th

No. Detailed overview of all the works of ri.
what will be given in tribute. B
”

‹

o m 1

Drawings by students of the Fine Arts Department.
Drawing by a student of the Fine Arts Department.

37
“
to
_ Proletarian Club.

“In the class struggle, I fill it with the
riya of humanity, social cohesion
nyh groups, awareness of the commonality of their
dachas are necessary conditions as
class victories, in the struggle for, domination, that
to construction, a new life. The feeling of dressing
the similarity of the basic views is also not
necessary for a social group, as
air for an individual. These basic
cultural views and feelings constitute the cultural
class guru, and\are cement, solder-
them into one whole: The broader the historical
the class halls, the more powerful it is

for, the higher his consciousness should be
affection and solidarity, the more
there must be his ideological independence
ity in relation to the ideology of his class-
owl nicks.

In that unparalleled struggle that
the proletariat is fighting for its liberation, oe0-
especially great are the demands that
are to the th combat cohesion.
With his revolutionary conquests he
legariat is obliged to be favorable for the development
development of class organized - ustu-
viiy created by the development of capitalism.
Work team—the situation in which
with which the whole life of a proletarian passes, and
Therefore, collectivism permeates the entire soul.
sewing warehouse of an industrial worker.

For a long time now the thought of the proletariat has become
completely independent, in the field of their
views on economic and political
Chinese relations. But this alone has not yet created
given its own class ideology.
The shackles must still be broken, the bonds firmly
blazing the proletariat’ in everyone else
areas of thought and feeling. Must break

NLUBY DEPARTMENT.

the power of bourgeois culture, to create a military
you are an independent class of your own culture
proletariat. Bourgeois cult) ra, until now
op fogs the proletarian thought, paraly-
evokes its revolutionary power. Proved-
This is why there is a world massacre in which over-
The culture of the proletariat is aimed at mutual
destruction. Sputtering and torn-
the difference between the workers and their class
centers, which is observed even in the crucible
Russian Revolution, causes passivity
mass and lack of people.

Life demands more and more urgently
end the spiritual slavery of the proletariat
cha, preventing further struggle, and
the contours of the emerging pro-
Letarian culture.

The blows dealt to the proletariat and
the position he is forced to occupy
revolutions, put the stamp of the soul on him
independence and created the opportunity
the possibility and necessity of creativity ea-
self-sufficient culture.

A new form of labor movement has emerged
nia—the union of proletarian culture.

The processing of the old culture has already begun.

‚ tours, creativity of new methods of thinking

and new forms of art.

The main cell of production of this crop is
Tours is a proletarian club.

The importance of the club as an organizing price
tra of social groups is not something
or new In ‘history. Revolutionary clubs
new periods and decadent eras, as well
as well as periods of normal development of the class
sa, under different names, performing
their purpose as breeding grounds for certain types of
visions and feelings, certain directions
culture. b

Boegos the political significance of the club would-
taken into account during the revolution of 1904–1905
74

year" Both by self-destruction and by workers
classum. Workers' clubs formed
many of the advanced workers of the revolution
lutions, and only the full phrase of the thunder of revolution
the movement also stopped
the existence of such clubs. After the fe-
of the liar's revolution they arise again,
but lack of funds does not allow widespread
expand their activities.

The October Revolution opened up the workers
clubs have the opportunity to develop freely,
but until very recently the activist
their attention was paid absolutely
inconsistent with their public knowledge
cheniya.

Only an exponent of creative aspirations
parts of the proletariat, Proletkult ogred-
Lenny consistently asked the question ©
the significance of the proletarian club.

In full accordance © isto
logical problems of this m.0-
ment main activity
The Royal Club is,
collective revolutionary-,
creative work in the field
art and science. To do this, proceed
Tara club, depending on requests
members of the club, organizes studios: choral,
dramatic, musical, scientific, street=
'zeratura, fine arts and
others. In the studios of the club, the proletarians occupied
use scientific and artistic techniques
work, critically review and
assimilate the cultural heritage that has passed,
learn to create new forms of art
and come to new achievements
lutionary thought.

The old ways of “teaching” are here,
Of course, cannot be applied. Only
principles of comradely cooperation
nothing really corresponds
pro-
letatiata. Work must. conducted ©0v-
locally. The plan and tasks are developed ©0-
general Difficulties are resolved collectively
but achievements belong to everyone. In-
the constructor only monitors the orderliness
works Being a student, he only gives
technical instructions when encountered
difficulties. Under such ‘conditions, creative
the compressed work of the studio workers acquires the necessary
Diet for success: slimming and freedom
development.

Arranging lectures, conversations, performances,
evenings, yugeneral educational walks and
etc. the club attracts a wide range of
working masses come into close contact
communication with them, unites them with feeling

EO S,

comradely solidarity and calls into
in their consciousness the bright light of the proletariat became mythological
sensations.

Evenings throughout the Dolekna club week
be always busy. Their program should
not to correspond to the zalryus, and ‘I level the times-
development of the working masses m At the same time, it is necessary
to be consistent with a harmonious system
whole-hearted, revolutionary-proliferative work
Parsian psychology. For this, all the work
it must be carried out according to certain
plan and in such a way that
every part of this work, tilting pre-
previous standard, served as preparation for the next
blowing stage. For example, lectures
must be preceded by a conversation, calling
creating interest in the lecture and facilitating understanding
her mania. Lectures or talks should
occupy only part of the evening so that
the second part could be dedicated to music
ke, singing, or recitation. Artistic
This part of the program should evoke feelings
ness, and a mood in harmony © pof-
howl part and thereby strengthen and consolidate
the action of a conversation or lecture. Zaloosy, you-
called these club nights,
must be deepened by the organization
ktUzhkov, elucidating this or that theory
tichestious and pgachtic question arises
common among club members. The work of such
circles is of great importance in de-
le development of class consciousness. Circle
ki, analyzing any particular issue
proe, cause the work of thought and lead
to systematic studies, form-
nimble proletarian worldview. Attracted
kaya is closer to the workers' club I VTyarivVaya
them in eo life, mugs are ‘odaga-
mi class struggle, from where continuously
a stream of members flows out and flows into the steam
political and professional organizations.
Ancillary institutions of the club are.
reading room, library, information desk, etc.
Their correct job is to
to answer any question
visitor, cause the work of thought and speech
mogal production of clear, stable v0z-
speny. These goals are achieved by selecting
ideological library workers and lower
small, the accessibility of Kiga, Sri-
changing diagrams, drawings, plazas,
lists of recommended books, special
mi clippings on issues of life ra-
high class, reviews, etc. Vidnoe
the place must be reserved for the full
schedule of all club activities. Let's blow it
the gap between the library is being filled
and the work of the district. and the book, It is found that
No. 1 G
worker's progress. Mobile libraries
serve as a connection with large central
libraries.

The purpose of the physical culture hall is
there is a desire for harmonious development
bodies, the young working generation. The main thing
the place here should be occupied by rhythmic
gymnastics

The club should have a canteen.
These canteens liberate the proletarian
og the musty vulgarity of taverns, protect
his health and give him the opportunity
to carry out within the walls of the proletarian club
free time after work. At the buffet
there should be newspapers and magazines.

It is important that every member of the club is
involved in this or that work for the club.
Only under the condition of the widest active
the club can correctly
functioned and really worked
school community.

The atmosphere of the club must be appropriate
meet his goals. It should evoke feelings
comfort, development of a sense of grace and
with your overall style you need to create
mine for raising the proletarian club to
structure. But to achieve this you need
but refuse the stencil barracks-
of workers' clubs, where the role of decoration
only 'posters' and a few
portraits of the leaders of the labor movement.
It is necessary not to skimp on funds and ‘handlers’
external decoration of the club for specialists.
We need to get the necessary Cattins,
drawings, diagrams, engravings, sculptures

SPRON. 7

(m

new works, ornamental plants,
it. d. and carefully consider and agree-
put in all the little details of the decoration so that Fozdal
harmonious whole.

'Around this proletarian club there are groups
feast and conduct an agreed upon
youth and children's clubs work,introduced
school courses and so on. Close connection
with these institutions the club is getting closer
the whole worker’s family comes to him and leads
Malic struggle < philistinism in this
home life. Therefore, © with our own hired-
conscientiousness must be tied to the club pro-
letharka-mother to help her in taking
in the real work of raising children and involving
it into the circle of public interests of the workers
th class. This is precisely why it is necessary
the club's particularly caring attitude towards
children's organizations that developed under him
tions. In addition, they are necessary for iron-
tzpletarok-mothers reports, conversations and
concepts, both general education and
issues of child care and education.

With such a statement, a university opens
the possibility of the widest influence
times for those layers of the working mass that are in
currently all impacts are still standing
workers' organizations, new ones are being created
shots of active workers with slim,
integral worldview and strong thought.

These seem to us immaturely
significant practical results
proletarian clubs.

S. Krzhizhanovsky.

38
76 rub.

About working with youth.

YouTubers and girls of the proletariat can
visit any proletkult studio..
Shirashivaetsya, let us isolate - Somehow
especially working with them. This is answered by
life itself. Youth are isolated in
youth unions are purely spontaneous. If
the spending habits of adults are needed to give law-
valuable form of self-educational workers
within unions, then the most natural thing is
in return for this assistance to Proletkult workers.
Proletkult reveals the creative forces of pro-
Letriat, and these creative forces in the mo-
Lyuzhezhi is an inexhaustible source.

The Moscow Proletkult entered into the most
close contact with the Youth Union “Sh In-
‘orational. Representatives of "Sh Interna-
tsial" together with representatives of Prolet-
r heret) form a collegium, on

which the organization lies
cultural and educational activities in
unions.

The work comes down to the work of the center, ‘where
representatives of active ra-
Botniks of the district, and work in the districts.

`A school of instruction has been established in the center
ditch,where classes are held to develop
more than the Marxist worldview. Pro-
grams are built based on two-aedil-
new visited by groups of no more than 20 people
century, method of teaching seminary’ti-
pa. Young people are preparing according to plans
aids for the upcoming conversation, guidance
The teacher conducts classes in such a way as to involve
everyone's work and help everyone accordingly
ego needs.

Once a week there are active meetings
district workers throughout Moscow, where
Representatives from Proletkult also complain.
At these meetings various or-
organizational issues, reports © ho-
de work in places. .

The youth club is intimate, closed-
ty character. Non-members are admitted to them
only as an exception. This is important for pain
our concentration of forces, for the education of
` responsibility for the life of the club. If possible
not a single day of club life
passes without a trace. In the center of Proletkul-
volume formed, group, leclors, specially
for young audiences. Classes are underway
in the club rooms of the districts, Lectures-
Conversations are held two or three times a week.
The rest of the time ` mugs. In circles
ki Proletkult also sends its ru-
pvrietoley, and then youthful

studio organization.

Sundays are devoted to excursions,
evenings, concerts, wide lectures, ©
inviting strangers.

Young people are always active until the end. When-
having acquired any knowledge and. getting carried away
certain ideals, she wants immediate
Lenio communicated them to the broad masses. Co-
youth unions protested in district
Tips © bad, harmful. quality of the evening
ditch in clubs and staged their concerts - ver-
yesterday, where programs were more strictly conceived
and in artistic matters it is significant
above. Contributed to the organization of the lecture, mi-
tinga, unions will always be willing. When
The Department of Public Education has completely mastered
contributes to the cultural life of the region, initiatives
nary role of unions in cultural and educational
In fact, it will disappear on its own, but for now you can
the youth, as a more sensitive element, cannot
pass indifferently past the spontaneous tdark
you are the masses and do what you can. To tasks
instructors and organizers of the district: ©з вхю-
is conducting a comprehensive investigation into the life of Rai-
she. Where to start strength › ©0uz
each organizer must find out those
data, that organizational material that
which the factory can provide him with,
waters, the whole area as a whole. Number of sub-
sprouts, boys, number of women,
wages, distribution of steel budgets
jet workers, their religious beliefs and
legal traditions, everything is included in the circle of
following. The collected material is discouraging -
being in the initiative group and responsible
he has work planned. Sometimes unions appear
are the initiators of literacy schools,
delia for girls, drawing and metallurgical courses
haniki for yun

As the milking industry expands,
ity of the department of public education, and the quality
every factory and plant will have
well-furnished school, youth
will have to deal with this kind of namina--
niyami, But typical for all youth
desire to expand the scope of its activities
There will, of course, remain some seriousness. Laboratoryuria
and the Proletkult studios will accommodate a decent
the number of youth, in addition to schools and
owls of the national, national
education. And for the practice of creating would-
These forms of culture are no longer foreseen.
necessity of communes, a unique
naya form of hostel. Youth
longs for the embodiment of his ideals,
she immediately needs to organize her life
in a new way, to introduce everything to your ideal

O SING ZO CHK

E V che

sucking =. F.

5 ^i th

Ab
’

№t

surrounding. And we need a way out of this thirst
waiting for creativity, Youth settlements © po-
by torture to introduce socialist principles into
everyday life is just around the corner. It gets in the way a lot
In this regard, martial law with one
on the other hand, and on the other hand there is a famine regime. From
environment ©unions are pumped out a lot in Kra“-
new Army, & the famine regime is growing
initial, both external and internal
topics From the outside, there is a difficulty in ©o-

building canteens, teahouses, wood crisis,

e internal, - weakening of the body from non-
finishing

Anyway,and in the drilling mode
zhuazny, and in the transitional periphery of social
construction, and in socialist
state-commune care, © youth
will go in two directions: creating 0b-
raetsov schools assistance in organizing sa-
independent unions. Unions put themselves
the goal is to maximize the identification of talents and
strength in the creative work of the team, unions
create the best environment for education
development of internationalist connotation,
unions teach you to think and act
on a large scale, preparing leaders,
who will be able to operate large digital
rami, to see the social process in complexity
different forms of the world economy,

Zalacha Proletkult developed a method-
logic with young people. While still de-
experiments are carried out, work is groping, and how
I already. said, in the most unfavorable
conditions. As soon as there is sufficient accumulation
but observations can be published
initial stuneni chaetodologicalcheekah isele-
dovaniya.

Now the method of our work is reduced to
to close cooperation © unions mozo-
bowls, in such forms that equality of ru-
There were full of kozhoditel and members of the union.
Only senior salesmen. No auto
ritarianism, nothing imposed from above. By-
standing life experience and observations.
Isolation of the most conscious elements
tov in systematic work pad self-
‹education does not separate them from the masses, tah
how practically they have to be ru-
leaders of this mass and serve it
interests. In this sense, the ototilum is
Our work is a spiritual organization
propaganda work. Party Vytaba-
there are conscious cadres of Marqueists
topics for selecting the most conscious elements
coms, which were in turn ac-
active propagandists among the masses. Also
Proletkult also acts, taking upon itself the responsibility

giving a deepening of the Marxist worldview.

4

BURN.

77

knowledge In the context of general philosophical problems.
The evolutionary principles are based on
only in the public sphere, by and ©bte-
scientific knowledge. The connection between everything
mi areas of scientific knowledge are established
is strictly Malgeist methodohm
The creative abilities of young people are revealed
are thus in the Prolet studios
kula} and in cells, specially organized
bathrooms inside the unions.
For a specific illustration of the work,
here too, produced by active workers
Botniks give orders to union organizers.

Instructions to organizers of youth unions.

1) Read in advance © kmiž-
kami: Levitin: “Militarization of youth”
ties in Germany", Kerzhentsva: "Republics
youth", Maisky: "Political Ger-
mania,” chapter on youth unions, Yuze-
Fuvich: “Youth Unions”, = Liebknecht:
"Militarism".

2. Having determined the area of your activity,
the organizer must make the initial bird-
gi survey the area independently.

a) Number of plants and factories in the district
one;

6) The number of workers on them.

c) Number of teenagers. boys for
each. at

Take information from both central institutions
Waiting, melting and in place.

3. Started working from a factory where there is a large
number of youth. Contact © factory-
our committees and get to know each other through them ©
the most active group. Having found out for her
union dacha, with its help created a meeting
of a conscription nature, where they are declared
the main slogans of the Third International and
an initiative group is being put forward to organize
unionization.

4. The initiative group is working on
together with the organizer, the clauses of the charter ©o-
yuza, communicates with other factories, where
conducts the initial work of calling y microns.
together with the active elements of the plant.
When groups form an initiative district
onic group, which agrees according to
issues of charter, plan, work, organization
and gathers a general meeting, I wish everyone
have become members of the union, if possible, then
inter-factory general meeting, if not
Vya, then to the factories. At a meeting, or meeting
factory committees are elected and from
they are delegates to the district committee. I'm an eater

but so that from each plant there is a delegate to
78
district committee Pvovoditeya charter, group
feasted in sections.

5. In the future, the work will be
work: in factory cells and
regional It is necessary that both go
in parallel. Eachdy plant, waiting for
start circle work ‘(or in parallel with
her) conducts a series of conversations clarifying the political
cultural, economic and cultural-enlightenment
essential tasks of the union. Nearby © conversations go
excursions (together © other factories,

district type), in connection with the survey,

life of the plant according to the following plan: a) for-
work ilala; b) housing conditions; c)

We are ZALE EALAYA

BURN.

marital status; d) communication. e village;
e) party spice: f) role-
new beliefs and everyday habits; g) ha-
the pattern of spending the salary and the use
use of free time; 3) hygienic
and sanitary cleaning of the plant and housing.

6) District work: to be established

communication with organizations: paotia, professional session
national unions, the Council of Deputies, Proletkul-
that representatives are delegated in general
family centers, an association of fa-
factory cells serving for
water.

No.:

BURN _ 79

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

About Alexandrovsky's poems.

With the idea of criticism, many
quietly communicates the presentation © by everyone
an embittered, hateful grumbler, or——pu-
ostom praiser; in a word - `appraiser lit-
gasural phenomena; it is assumed that
assessment: pronounce an indictment or
acquittal; the critic looks
an unforgiving judge or a groundless lawyer
feces; meanwhile, he is an anatomist, physiologist,
revealing the organisms of literature (organ-
lows of ideas, forms and images). Winding nor-
Small criticism should reveal specific
the givenness of the literary material;
be able to see it; observation and description
here plays a huge role, and even skill
reading. Criticism sins against reading: we
we read with our eyes, and that’s why it slips away
from us there are many elements of literature,
constructing an actually disassembled lo-
ethical orgasm.

Creativity is always a becoming, a creation
singing; it, like nature, forms life for us
higher worlds. Analyzing rationally (ready
form) of the poet's poem, we liken-
We would rather go to that butterfly collector,
who pins them with a pin to the car-
I sink and sink, killingt, but mer-
That butterfly is not alive. - Must-
WE learn to accurately describe And on-
observe the life of flying and living organ-
nisms; & we don’t know how to do this yet, and that’s why
We very often make fun of assessments
poet, to the paper with a sharpened edge of the cri-
tic pen. And nonsense dies in appreciation.

Usually all our estimates come down to
establishment of epalant (or its denial).
But do we know what we are saying in
the sound of the word “talent”? “Talent is a material

4

“yours” alone tell us; "interior stylaya"
— others tell us. But... poor Talali,
He sat down only “guts” or “technique”. Neg,
talent is a most complex combination of methods -
nosto, each of which, taken separately,
may look either talented or not
talent. Hails many times
nominal “talents”, harmonic
their combination is talent; combination of physical
logical (formal) and moral
functions found in poetry nae. Criticism
must reveal the relationships between phase systems
(neural, respiratory, muscular) in the
ethical disassembled organism, not looking for
fighting to one side. I'll say para-
dock: a very important poet in the ranks of fashion
Maybe we are not given a major work; I
Let me tell you: mediocrity can write perfect
seam lines, playing with both form and image
zom. Confirmation or dethronement of "talent"
smug criticism based on
narrowed idea of talent, - nothing -
does not prove it; rebounds don't prove it either
quotes: they cover up the ‘critical pro-
navol with a place-based mask of ob’ecutiveness-
sti

I can, for example, prove: Comrade Alexey-
Drovsky is practicing the saying of penetrating
this: “In the terrible hour of bloodshed, evil
You can’t love” (Blood and Labor). (Perfectly
but it’s true: in general, evil is not an object of love,
and writing about it is superfluous; this means shi-
say that it’s light during the day and dark at night”).
I can prove: Comrade Alexandrovsky created
there are false pretentiousness, like: “Lym s
Cain's subterfuge will blow away the holes in the clouds for-
nitonal" (Okranna). I can prove: rhythm
T. Aleksandrovsky - the rhythm is heavy; ana-
pestles 'him. very often they turn into crap
ki (formsa ‹55—> In the form “—-—e): So that (cash)
the world was destroyed by a thunderstorm.” He selects the
And...

obviously false rieoms: irit-you—
battles (to the winners). Verbal tools
cop, it’s heavy, “And dreams that so
dear to us" (“why, what, so”—terrible!) (Mi-
new). In a word, I can produce a poet
the tip of my coit.

And conversely, I can prove: the images of Comrade Ale-
Xanders are creative, plastic and
dynamic: “Hands will throw their hands more than once
lot for burning metal,” or: “They drop the wings
shi tears na skolskiy 'grotuao' (In Autumn).
I can prove that the rhythms are its essence
sophistication: “The path marked with blood,
not finished. Go! Will lead us like fire
covered, horizon ahead" (—6—65—
50 | 00—50— | 0-60 - 0 - in | 0—5 —);
The verbal instrumentation shows us
master: “In another time, we believed” - (in-time-
vvr); riema—exquisite: sultry—warrior (Du-
sha will not get tired of glowing).

Criticism is not just random quotations;
it is a revelation of the peculiarities of poetry, many
hokevistly growing through the thickness of the soul-

no inertia of perfections and imperfections.

stvami (like nature); quoted, then, while-
meaningful when it is characteristic & characteristic
thorny is established by statistics; koitiki
do not produce statistics and their choice of ci-
"ta" is arbitrary in most cases.

You could say: perfection and too
com rapid mastery of technology in youth
potote house—danger, luminous
premature development of children (recogniz-
birth).

The same cannot be said about the young Prule-
Tara pot, imperfect, kah tech-

ke: He needs to study hard and a lot.
Very often they fill in the line in cursive
its own, but the line-description is an abstraction, or
.-- credit from the reader. Etc. Alexandrovsky
often speaks to us on credit, not in
convincing us without convincing us. way:

"Everything here speaks of 'breast'
"And the air, and the people, and the buildings"
(Working World).

This is not an image of work, not an atmosphere of work,
a maxim; if instead of abstract

he conveyed maxims in a specific etiquette
atmosphere of work, then there would be no need to pi-
sal of a feuilleton statement in verse:
"It says everything hereabout labor" is not a line, but
title to Ionalisanna - poetic
line; but in other places young people are
makes it possible to concretely experience images of labor
warm atmosphere; example: “Hands but once
they will also throw a hammer on the burning metal”; or:

“The random clang of steel.” ( (Uprising). In

gov.

the lines given are really: “Here
more says © labor.” But this maxim is there
our conclusion; the poet may not resort to it,
and force us with their images. speak out
say what he claims in other places
on credit, not winning in the same way; or
when he talks about a bright life, about being proud
labor (“We who build cities”), then. otsat-
Still, I want to suddenly exclaim: “Well,
give us an atmosphere of brightness, etc.
dosti: Sami. epithets bright, proud
became permanent epilettes; say © si-
in the sky, that it, the sky, is blue, does not mean
still convey the impression of blue. Said
“proud work” is the same as papisal
in charcoal on the canvas the words “should be here.”
- picture of labor" - instead of the conquering land'
scam paintings; Comrade Alexandrovsky gives
juicy strokes of images: “Chilling. with a prick
Autumn kisses us with cold, no matter what,
then-image; or: “Golden, golden snakes are thirsty”
poured at home." ("Uprising") - magnificent
image; imagine instead of obzaz, styu-
ku: “There were fires in the city.” And these are
lines about “proud” work and “vibrant” life.
The fabric of images of poetry comrade. Aleksantrovsky
illuminates a picture where small parts of the
licoriously painted; still pro-
the pilgrimage of the picture is hastily outlined
coal, denoting only the mixture of future
paints; it turns out to be an annoying disappointment,
kah from the figure whose hand is written out
hands and Sketched, hastily hand, written out, eye
a hastily sketched head, etc.; This
the haste of work sometimes creates false
into sounding images, like “Orcs are flying”
the island of the split" ("Uprising" U): peal
the orchestra does not soar, but falls, attacks, thunders
mit; oh dear soars oh tender

This set should be done a lot
s, ki, similar traces
Would Execution | lets down victories
result! (——5 | m5 | 5 | “—), “So that (over)
peaceoh the thunderstorm has gone out" (—6— | c9-- | 5—)
(“Mother”)—abundant in three-lobe varieties
mfrach (anapaests, amphibrachs). In these
sizes, accumulation of water should be avoided
complex and disyllabic words forming
for severe constipation: you should play on
combinations with four-legged
Blok somehow does: “Golden straight-
di on the forehead, a golden icon on the chest" (ten-
compound word, 2 two-syllable, 3 three-syllable
complex, etc. 1,). It sounds strange: “Kogla”
the night tore the skin with a belt whip" (from
"peszh labor"). Ugly without tinting
move from form ‹^—› to form

No. t

“—yu—›, yes @also accompanied by speed
captivity of consonants “Mbsti explosion”... “Vehk-y
no 63.m-&x" (vsk-vzm with the form -%—')—in
anapest, some meter "5—". Heretic (—\%—!)
must be motivated, conscious and co-
echaly used; unconscious’ fell
Denition in Khretizhi ‘Comrade. Alexandrovsky
there is a simple lack of mastery of meter, and not rhythm
ical modulation; in the same way, don’t allite-
walkie-talkie random spelling of syllables “us” in style
wishing “The Past”:

At the appointed place
We were pressed by alarming oars,

I want to repeat all this with the greater earth.
Comrade's tenacity Alexandrovsky, what’s in it
there is an instinctive sense of rhythm; then’ in
in his lines one comes across capricious fashions
lation until the choriambic ‹ feet appear
(—55—), so rare in Russian poetry
(in the poem “Our Way”), then plays
he is a clear, hyvratic meter, picturesque
Suya hammer drop:

Sparks are like gold...

A whirlwind sings in the forest...

The blot's hands froze...

The hands dropped with a wave... and... Etc.
(“Blacksmith”)

In the features of pauses falling at times.

cutting spruce trees in poonic feet, from comrade.
Aleksandrovsky should be noted -
number of pause forms like: - 5" | 5’ (pauses
form "C" *):

With crimson | banners

Flasks | sealed

Plains | bbzbrezhnymi, etc.
(“Tales of Struggle”).

Characteristically: another proletarian poet,
Comrade A. Pomorsky (“Flowers of the Uprising”) play-
has a different pause form (c):

= pbbnyi

Comrade is unconscious. Alexandrovsky and
love for “sweet sounds”, i.e. sounds
depicting sodafidgeting; talking about pro-
burst, he plays the sounds “p” and “r”, lively
Descending Breakthrough: RA

’ The dams were quickly broken
Persistent pressure. ‘
(Br-pr-rv-paneer.)

The creativity of Comrade Aleksandrovsky is
there is a melting pot of grief where myo-

‚ refractory ores; they are not melt-

th

us; and they will form a row in the smelting of rows; sgu-

*) See my book “Symbolism”.

8

BURN.

3t

st\s, heavy the world of his sound patterns;
in the process of self-determination of the poet. task,
critics protect the poet from premature
ratings (praise, blame) and rotate it
to realize his own musical
Lada: only hard creative work,
self-consciousness clears up defects, living
what is in him is his own ignorance. Comrade
Aleksandrovsky is so young; he---just yet
starts poetry; and crowned the laurel-
mi early him; condemn, all the more early.

Let us be critics, we have worked as poets
by jointly deepening our attention.
mania for the peculiarities of poetic speech; in
the work of awareness of the verse, as well as the world of the strange
Des, trembling in the 'poetic line,
we will find new approaches to expansion
verbal inventiveness; in the collective
new work of recognizing the world of poetry and
poets and critics will find common ideas; and
mutual understanding will be established there,
where originally. division into
"critics" and "huets". .

So let's work! r

Andrey Bely.
g @5

0 novels by T. Bessalko.

In front of me are two small volumes. Both of them

The novels are entitled “Catastrophe” and “Without.
consciously" are called, we repeat, ro-
manami, and the first question that will be born
When the reader sees small books, he will:
Are these works novels? We believe"

°that the author correctly named his pro-

information. And these two novels, and placed
in the Almanac of the St. Petersburg Proletkult
story “Kuzka’s Childhood*®, they are all
parts of a huge epic,

Not a personal moment of Darov or Prosha inter-

‘results the author. No, he is attracted. to yourself image-

visual image and description of collisions
two eras, two layers. Here is the grief before us-
the chaotic childhood of the orphan Kuzka, who
whom only awkwardness prevented him from becoming,
professional thief when he fled from
workshop. There was only one consolation for him - this

‘conversations with a drunkard, a wonderful local

Roaring carpenter Zakhar Gavrilych,
whose tales awakened young consciousness. And
even then the little ragamuffin had to
encounter people of an alien world, lure”
beautiful and mysterious.—Very vividly descriptive—
says the author of the meeting with high school students. But little
chick, & later’ the young man is still under

and

+

82

by the complete oppression of the past, and the enlightenment—
in addition to the career of a master with his marriage to a be-
the owner's flamboyant and evil daughter—the boy
not yet. And in the novel “Unconscious
by“ the young author tries to give real
a picture of how, without any help
there was no agitator or propagandist, heavy
along a thorny path, at the cost of personal tragedy
when the young man comes to a meaningful understanding
understanding the essence of the current system. Give a punishment
mud, and true one at that, of the unconscious pre”
rotation of the Black Hundred worker into consciousness
a proud fighter for a new world - difficult for.
dacha and we must state that our
the proletarian writer handles it well
curled up. The artist paints people as
who they are, and hence the picture is different
inner persuasiveness and kinship with
the moods of the reader - the proletarian. Let
out of place in the novel is the moment of personal drama, trans-
lived in connection with the most ordinary history
ria, which consists in the fact that the high school student
seduced the worker's favorite girl, and
Tom abandoned her. Let the meeting be in public
at home with this desecrated first love of his
made Darov go wild and arrange a
thunder—but this makes it even more convincing
a terrible picture of the destruction of the Odessa port,
given by the author. But even after this, as a young man
two elements fight and only because
that tsarism could not act otherwise than
he acted only in such a bitter personal way
disappointment in the governor, who
ordered to shoot the Zubatov strike,
and in bringing an investigator to whom the young man
I wanted to repentI am in a terrible sin - murder
people - and who handled the matter like a true
newcomer, not understanding the absolutely young melancholy
soul - only as a result of such personal
ny (basically, of course, class
collisions) and Darov came to a new
attention to life. And, finding himself in prison for
insult to the investigator, first time Darov
encounters that are scary before for him
democrats, supposedly carriers of the antichri"
stand printing. The rest is clear—but here too
he retained the independence he received
difficult life experiences, pestering
to Litik Arkady with a demand to answer
the question of the meaning of character in history.
Then we ‘meet, and only briefly, with Da-
`drov at the end of the revolution in 5 years. What happened
the author will tell you about it this time, obviously
then, and now in “Catastrophe” we are present
we meet at sunset. The moment chosen was shocking -
living - there is unemployment in the wild, they are dying of hunger
families of prisoners and tramples his
son is a politician. I ask his father, the gendarmerie

BURN.

No. t

sergeant. This is a picture of all of Russia that
terrible time. And in prison, Shcheglovitov-
prison, recent fighters for
bright life. They die both physically and
morally, bending under an unbearable
they carry them and often voluntarily leave
life. And the prison was not the same. The beast is in her.
dominates. And with horror you read terrible
pages describing fights and quarrels concluded
nykh, - everything that the prison greeted me with.
In the cell there is a personal fight, and a peculiar
naya civil war between tired of
revolution and disillusioned people
intelligentsia and considers herself devoted
intelligentsia masses. Who remembers the gloomy
the days of our counter-revolution, when it happened.
ideological mass renegade intelligentsia
he will take the picture of this collision closely
knowledge given by Comrade Bessalko.

Darov sharply hated people with brilliant
coats of arms, remembering what millionaire De-
Niska with his Anyuga, he is still merciless
to them and calls on the workers to rely only on
your calloused hands. He boldly leaves
from the noose, and the rest submit, andmany
and they themselves voluntarily give up life.
And it is against this background that the traitor is played out -
the quality of the intelligentsia, which, for the sake of preserving
life goes even into the union of the Russian people
This is how he saves himself from death. Only one
the intellectual remained with the masses - Fomich; But.
After all, he too is touched, and he’s also a ridiculous actor, a servant.”
tea stuck to the southern barricades. .
The prison is terrible, but it’s also in life.
Shcheglovitov is from Ekaterinoslakskaya.

Prisons were a complete horror. Happy living |
m
whether prisoners and completely unexpectedly to everyone _

they were suddenly confronted with the terrible article 279, ka- 1
raging noose - and the mass verdict was and
in life (Gorlovka trial with 32 mortals

sentences and subsequent repentance 28 =

person). That's why from the picture of the prison, >
and from the moment of intellectual betrayal
breathes true life. Of course, the topic itself is _
maybe the picture given is too big
by the author, (singing in church) unconvincing in
‘some details, but it’s not the details that are important to us, ®,
the overall picture.

We consider it a great merit to the author.
torture to give an artistic depiction of a demon
conscious transformation of a mass worker-worker.
what in the barricade conscious fighter.
All these are still only separate parts of the pain -
great picture, which we paint with all our might
We wish our souls to the author. b

“Catastrophe” also touches on a burning issue
about sabotage of the intelligentsia in 1917-18. and
gives him, in our opinion, the correct explanation.

G

h

t

|

*

3 re ry

‚nie. And at the same time, if the reader thinks
rushes into this inevitable collision of two
started, he must understand that there is only one way out
standing before him is the work of Proletkult,
aimed at developing your own
intelligent forces, but not our own,
even the workers, the intelligentsia. Here's the
what, leaving aside a number of mistakes like
technical and ideological, we warmly recommend
We recommend to our fellow readers the novels of Comrade Bes-
Falco. These are truly novels, since they
draw the life and changes of an entire class and
those collisions that he had to endure
Keep on your life's path. Ingenuousness-
new novels are strongwe are our personal persuasive
ity and are completely devoid of the lithic element
Ratourism. Let us wish Comrade Bessalko
rather give the same truthful card and
fifth year
From. 'Erivtsov.

"Oznekryly Plant". Collection of fly-bys
Chinese poets.’ Ed. Moscow "Ptoletus"
vulta."

Among those released recently
<bor'.ikov of Proletarian poets “Fire Plant”
winged" is perhaps the best example, barely
Isn't this the first indication that a new streak of life
a new trend in poetry leads to an independent

Not x artists: I mean poet

‘erasimova.

His three other comrades, represented
In the collection: Alexandrovsky, Eroshin, Niko-
barks do not bring anything new, original,
peculiar, in parts can only skillfully
responding to the great experience we are experiencing
era, without going beyond the “official” line
“proletarian art” at the same time
not far from that direction of the citizens
<what kind of poetry, which numbers dozens
their zealots. So, for example, despite
for all the external, apparent novelty of poetry
creations of comrade Alexandrovsky, it’s still possible
definitely indicate that the origins of his creativity
qualities come from techniques, methods and all postures
‘tical structure of the button accordion of the 5th year,—Ski-

.

_`taltsa. This inner one is especially bright, almost
` fatal connection in such a “weekend” style

Creation" as "Blacksmith".

The whirlwind sings in the forge
There is no fatigue in my hands
No pity for the iron—

Beats.

I immediately remember the amazing thing: “Hit,”
hearts of iron, inspired anvil

9 g & _ 83

and a lot of sparks - all cardboard props,
which at one time served only for food
the forced irony of such a mockingbird,
like A. Izmailov. It’s also impossible, perhaps,
talking about this kind of creativity, I can’t remember
and the poet Tarasov, whose revolutionary
themes, civic motives approximately
the same artistic and poetic plane,
may sometimes be developed much more successfully.
Themes themselves: Worker, Forge, Forges, Fairy Tales
struggle, rebellion, etc. in themselves, like
bare skeletons and diagrams, not clothed in new
my inner poetic flesh and bloodb
images are not new. One has only to open the ma-
small and large magazines 5-6 years old, like
we’ll immediately come across dozens of obsessives
poems, where we will hear heavy
the step of the locomotive, and the rustle of the drive belts,
and the hasty shadow of the Remington, and the modest
I'm sewing... poor seamstress, this is sad—
haunting image of the first revolution was
It would be a big mistake to assert the novelty of this
some poetic experiments, introducing not much into
the metric of the verse itself, at least from Mayakovsky,
who has purely externalities, Alexandrovsky,
for example, inherits a deliberately chopped-off
number of stanzas. But it’s one thing to wear red
new flags along the street and something completely different
the point is to write poetry about them. There are colas on the street
the wind blows, makes you look like something unprecedented

"fairytale birds, in the collection of poems without
of this free wind, these banners, as if in the dark
nom closet, hang helplessly and, like death,
tall, pressed against the dead shaft. Finish
but such responses to the experiences we experience
beings are completely natural, life itself is
sends the poet on the path along which they are scattered
new, free voices, but artistic
measure, should not leave the soul for a minute
a true creator and artist. With deep
the sincerity of the most revolutionary feeling,
conveyed by the poet in poetry, nevertheless
from the satisfaction of purely artistic m%ril,
the necessary firm rein on demands
and legibility deprive his creation of life-
innocence, transparency, strength and beauty itself

A completely different feeling comes over the reader
when reading in the same collection of beautiful
poems by Gerasimov. Already the first construction
the fa of the first poem forces
somehow be on guard, get ready;. why
something that has not yet been experienced in poetry:

I'm not in a pampered nature

Among the blossoming beauty,

Under a smoky sky in a factory

Forged iron flowers.

The sun of the south did not caress them

Y did not lull the moonlight d.
oh you

us A

34

With each new poem more and more
you succumb more to the charm of the new poet
already with fully strengthened skill. In themselves
sizes, extremely simple, without sophisticated
ny newfangled technology, without this deliberate
tones of long and short phrases, I remind you -
unnecessary rearrangement of the same
furniture by a bored housewife, and in the sounds themselves
kiah, in their concentration on the main thing, prices
central, in their compactness, one feels sympathy
completely new, completely original
poetic initiative.

We're following the sun's trail

Into the inaccessible ether.
Our propeller sang victory,
'Varezaya dawn calling world, etc.

Or:

We fly to the sound of the engine
The turquoise sky sparkles,
All the majesty, all the open spaces
Captive eyes knew.

So majestically the young poet sings our ra-
the first revolution, from his songs, as we know
Nick, there is great faith in this revolution,
to the final victory of Russia and the whole world.

We are Wagner, Vinci, Titian,
We are a new museum-building
Let's build a dome like Mont Blanc.

Yes, this is not the scolded Rofael for the sake of yet
unknown “Tomorrow”, this is “not the art of color
you“—trampled by a merciless tractor
Revolutions - here on the ruins of the old
economic structure will roar with new light
all the wonderful achievements of man
genius, because now:

How wonderful
The knight descended to earth.

And this knight turned “smilingly.”
melodious temple" yesterday's shackled prison
against the will of the soul,—nowadays: “sheets of steel, like
icons shine in “golden lights” and “fire mountains-
us,” “like cups of red wine.” Joyful drink-
appreciation of new life, thirst for new creative
the mission of humanity shines through in every line
new poet and not helplessly flutters “beautiful”
"the new flag of the commune" and flares over the world, C
large, peculiar juiciness and richness
ity, images in Gerasimo’s poems
va. as if they had emerged from under a remarkable
press of original, creative will, co-
there is also a melodious lyrical tenderness hidden in 060-
beauty spiritualizing every line.
So in the poems “At Night” and “She” this
the combination has been achieved with particularly great
skill and luck. Both of these poems

are parts of the same poem “Monna Lisa”,
which, due to typographical fault, is not specified in
collection. A new light is already breaking through here
Jocko's mysterious facendy; so simple and
vitally taken in the form of a simple worker,
“arrived at the plant” that produces pu-
neck projectiles:

You were welcome as May

And drunk with your singing -

But here are the cast iron shells
Charged by your hand.

Shafts, belts of buzzing strings
Thunderous tunes are sung,

And there are lovers and young
Your grenades keep hitting and hitting.
No, I don’t think, I don’t believe it,
So that you suddenly change
And to be a servant of the beast
The trembling of these stalked hands*)

In the department of the collection “Lyrics” with colleagues
Gerasimov does not have this marvelous shore, from which
whom the poet seems to push away and surrender
to the will of the free waves of the dreaming soul. Comrade
Alexandrovsky the image appears again
weavers:

For your arrival with scarlet flowers
I'll sneak away your corner

Let them scatter with wondrous dreams
The sadness that the machine brings to you during the day.

Comrade Eroshina in quite sonorous, musical
cal stanzas, the wind is blowing, “gentle,
playful, angry, fleet”, alas, strong
but reminiscent of Balmont: !

Wind, you are my brother.

Both the one and the other image belong to the
tradition of our poetry, but how new and unexpected
but “Stoker” comrade. Gerasimov, who from
the “cast-iron belly” of the cheerful ship looks like

All around in the azure space
In the effervescent sparks of foamy waters
Light from sad wanderings
Dolphins dance in circles.

You close the collection with great satisfaction
remorse, with new hope for new expectations
and the conquests of Russian poetry were firmly sealed
the name of the first treatment, chatted in memory
Tarsky and true poet - Mikhail Gerasi-

mov, the messenger of a new era in art - ary, _

proletarian collective.
(. Leshenkov.

*) These last two stanzas are again

unfortunate oversight, there were a little cheating }

not included in the collection.

No. '

ALEXANDER POMORSKY. Flowers
uprising, Petersburg" 1919.

After skimming through this little book, you feel
still satisfaction: through technical
inability, like grass,” pulses break through
self-willed capricious rhythm: and through
swarms of words borrowed from ab- brochures
abstract, as if through a shell, appear
images seeking expression; attitude-
‘The spirit of the proletarian is also revealed in the games of rhythm,
and in the very way of perceiving nature and
city; poetic movement in the soul and re-
accepting the world through the prism of poetry slowly,
only in years, cuts through the prosaic
scab of our usual word usage
bleating, our word fell apart into scabs
concept and to the futuristic chime itself
matter of sound; rhythm, like an ugly, pure
the melodious beginning of poetry is usually composed
earlier than poetic imagery, and in poetry

‚ Alexandra Pomeranian rhythm, like grass, pro-
grows outward through paving slabs
hackneyed words imposing the stamp of banality
ity on the embodiment of his worldview in
word; abundance of words like “cult”, “hymn”, etc.
They are not images, but feuillet expressions; and
lines similar to the lines: “and new
I will light a khult before the new altar,” the essence of prose,
poster, platform, slogan, whatever you want, but not
poetic image; but in the same poem
"Proletariat", completely covered with slabs
prosaic words, breaking out through them,
winged rhythms beat: “I am the element, I am death,
I am a hurricane, I create, I will destroy... I will calm
the pain of cruel wounds, I will ignite the timid soul -
shu." Here is the rhythm diagram of this quatrain:

and— | in— |6 — | 6% —
Zhi | and |5th
r I o Po
va - [iv | —

What exquisite interruptions! Iambic moisture
Deet Comrade Pomorskiy; music of his poems
Melody is healthy and vital; few lines with
ugly clusters of monosyllables; words
its lines are polysyllabic; that’s why it’s iambic
full of blows, shocks, interruptions, like “But
every stone of yours is our cold sweat.”
t eradu”), or: “Dragon with a disfigured head-
pom" (ibid.). “The fog, like a dream, covers
building" (p. 19). The rhythm of the poetry is magnificent
rhenium “Bells”, It’s not for nothing that the poet says:
“^^My ear sculpted their fiery melody” (p. 21).

Comrade Pomeranian's chorus is fiery. ; The rhythm of the poem
“Train” creations convey the rhythm of movement
trains. The rhythms of the poem are magnificent
"Tribune's funeral."
Comrade Pomeranian’s rhymes are refined and bold:

from 44

BURN.

85

“outskirts are welded together” (13), “dams are dithyrambs”
(17), “Somov-neRelomov" (23) it, d.

Not so with words: words are pale, abstract
we: “protest” songs (13), new “cult” (15),
“music of unshakable destruction” (29), “working
class,” and an abundance of hymns; even the alders' hymns
they made noise” (16) etc. d. I repeat again,
Poetry is lame in the means of representation
T. Pomeranian; in rhythm she thrives; as a matter of fact; all his poetry is ugly,
wordless singing element of the soul, doomed
no time to use the worn-out ones
words; and yet: through the worn-out words
here and there bright images appear:

The city of Somov is beautiful in spring,
Surrounded by the Volga bottling,

In a wave of mountainous fractures

Dropping a chime into the azure...
The sun is playing... The air is clean
Languishing in the bliss of the breeze...

A mountainous slope sparkles towards the river
Red gold sand.

All poems dedicated to
the city and, above all, “Buried Tribune”.
We wish Comrade Pomorsky to get rid of his soul
its load of prosaic words and rags for-
task images, so that its rhythm would weave for him
new images corresponding to the songs of the soul
him.

Andrey Bely.

———vizh——f=——

‘

Among the magazines.

Noticeable about “proletarian culture”.

One of the commissariats. Stressful work
ta. Bowed heads. And there, on the edge of the table,
a small book turns gray...

- Comrades, what do you have?

— The last issue of “Proletarian Culture”.

Behind these little gray books with
follows with love and deep interest.
letariat, the intelligentsia is also watching intently.

I had to talk to a proletarian
poet.

I tease:

- “Proletarian culture” keeps you under
real guardianship. She constantly points
the true path for you. - Don’t walk, dear, in the right direction.
oh, you'll stumble there, yes. And here there is, perhaps,
from the evil one. Doesn't this kind of annoy you?
nanny? :

The poet smiles: :

- No, that's how it should be. We, the artists, the people-
addicted, it’s easy for us to get lost, to look

BL <. il negative
th

xia, and “Iroletarian culture” is very necessary
to us with your attentiveness. sobriety.

The intelligentsia listened excitedly
rising to the heartbeat of a new culture, well-
wives thisI don’t give the magazine, like Ariadne’s ball,
trying to get confused in the labyrinths of the new consciousness.

In addition to guiding articles, the reader will find
There are also poems on the pages of this magazine.

This is how we met young Moscow
poet. Gerasimov (“Poems about Iron” and “For-
spring waters" in 4th issue of the magazine).

The poem “Poems about Iron” seems
to us weaker ones, there is something fatally
relationship with Balmont, and at that Balmont
period of decline, a boring singer of various
elements.

This poem is far-fetched, hopeless
cold, with unfortunate neologisms like
“cleanliness” is almost the only advantage
has musicality m.-6. because the music
the cal element is always submissive to the gifted
to the proletarian poet:

“Spring Plant” is one of the best
knowledge of Gerasimov, But let’s return to self-
mu magazine.

All achievements, all plans of Proletkult
are regularly noted on its pages and
make it possible to monitor organic
development of proletarian organizations. All
milestones along which cultural-
The guts of the proletariat also find themselves from
click on the pages of this magazine. So we
we encounter a number of articles by Bogdanov about the new cri-
tika, about cultural heritage. This author
indicates the need for acceptance and criticism
tic consideration of the legacy of the past
culture. Only on a durable, comprehensive
the considered foundation should be based
to become a young culture.

This question has still not lost its relevance
living interest, because it is the starting point
the great path of the proletariat.

Should we leap from the abyss into some
a new abyss, or rise through the world
ladder, each step of which is critical
technical overcoming the previous one.

Also read with interest the article by Polyan-
sky “Motives of Worker’s Poetry” and Ka-
Linin “The Path of Proletarian Criticism” and “Poetry”
“Vision of the working blow”—Gasteva.

We would like to join the opinion of Comrade
Kalinin about the imperfection of the form of this pro-
letarian writer, especially remembering the principle
pip of unity of form and content.

Gastev's thoughts are the thoughts of a proletarian, but
Thought alone does not produce art.

MWe wish Comrade Gasteva should quickly find himself
himself, because his thoughts can be useful

no.

in the organizational work of the proletariat, and
not having its own artistic embodiment,
the poet's thoughts are ineffective.

The library department is also widely organized
graphies The magazine keeps track of everyone going out
proletarian works, and reviews from
differ for the most part not only in ideas -
nom, but also artistic flair.

I was somewhat unpleasantly struck by Comrade’s note.
In, G.-about the “Literary Appendix”, We consider-
We conceal our duty to stand up for talented
Vago of the poet Yesenin. All his work is about
completely healthy earthly force and all of it
“mysticism” is a deep belief in revolution
tional revival of Russia. Therefore the words
venerable reviewer that the poet, without
any reservations go to the camp of reaction,
seem to us insufficiently substantiated, but
the term “nonsense” used in the assessment
artistic work is unacceptable
we are in serious criticism.

In general, the magazine “Proletarskaya.kul-
tour“ seems to us necessary and good edition
niya, correctly directing the proletarian
consciousness and cheerfully leading into the kingdom of the new
culture.

V, y.

Journals: “Izvestia artistically -
educational department Moskovek. (ov.
Slave 00ld. and Kr. Deputies", "Isvue-
estvo", "Future".

The October Revolution finally ended
moved into the arena of cultural life
the masses of the people who are in urgent need
in the knowledge of all the arts created by the past
values and creating, not yet
Unsure how much, but already hot enough
and seriously, create your own world
technical achievements. From here it is clear how valuable
every organ created by the forces of flight
riata and serving its cultural
millet. It is also clear that the tasks of such organizations
The gachas should be mainly as follows;
familiarizing the reader with all the diversity
winter of forms of creativity of the past, lighting
theoretical issues of art and para-
Providing everyone with modern
to the proletarian artist a wide range of opportunities
the opportunity to publish what was valuable
him to create. PeI took on the task and took it upon myself
Izvestia magazine artistic - educational
telny Department Moscow. Sov. Worker, Soldier and Kr.
Deputies with the journalist who replaced him now
Scrap "Art". We have here, a selection of serious.
expedient and at the same time quite affordable

No.

form of articles on a number of different
questions. General problems of artistic
creativity (articles by Malinin, V. Fritsche
etc.), theater issues, (articles by V, Kerzhentsev
and V. Bebutov), the tasks of painting and characterization
ristics of individual artists (V. Fritsche and
etc.) all this is analyzed simply and deeply and
is certainly exactly the food that
which is so necessary for the working reader. Cro-
Besides this, on the pages of these publications
works by Steinlen, Delacroix,
Goya, Retel, Kathe Kollwitz, C. Magnier, Daumier,
Rodvna and our S. Konenkov. Although the choice
Artists are somewhat random and unrelated
a certain sequence, nevertheless
the material is extremely valuable and
rich. What else remains. to give credit
magazines is the completeness of their information
departments

The magazine “The Future” is of more interest to us,
like a tribune from which the voices of passing
Tara poets and prose writers. On the pages
here the familiar names of Bezsalko flash,
Gastev, Kirillov, Kalinin, Samobytnik,
Kotomki, etc. It seems to us inappropriate
talk about each of these authors separately
details in this note. Let us only point out that
with undoubted talent, many {of them
there is still a stubborn struggle ahead with technical
difficulties and for many the main job is still
ahead, the same applies to prose, which
®is still quite primitive and suffers from roughness
Woolly and uneven.

the fight against technically unusual de-
The scrap goes away while the lion's share of the creative
the energy of young proletarian writers.
New, original forms are not essential
No new content is visible yet.
© content “it’s still the same old poetry
“civic feeling” and social pro-
test, more generally democratic than
class-proletarian, poetry of revolution
in general, and not our proletarian ssocial-
Stic revolution.
aa oLooking for a connection with the old world in the area
cultural and economic life, in 06-
area of cultural construction of the span-
I'm still starting to free myself from
‚› HE still walks on a leash.
:B, it is the work of Proletkult that is important, that it
r tm gives the opportunity for class ob'-
etc. proletarian cultural beginnings
new organizational basis for
worker independence
Class.

It’s not a big deal that at first “Grya-

"now" is not so easy to distinguish from yesterday's

him.
45

ate:

87

Our Petrograd comrades went but
the right way. Without being afraid, let's say very much,
some hackneyedness with those imitation
forms of inexperienced workers, without chasing
forced, fake originality,
immediately began publishing the proletarian
Russian art magazine.

First of all, let's create our own
Stersky, and there will already be their own,

_new methods and forms, your own

proletarian style.
Sergei Spassky.

"GORNI.10". Fiction-literature-
tourist and socio-political excursion
cash Publication of Izvestia of the Saratov Soviet
Deta. -

Useless, boring and vulgar journalism
cash on beautiful, expensive paper.
Inept, mediocre bastards of all kinds
decadence interspersed with student
exercises on “poetic” and non-poetic
ical topics. In all three issues of the magazine,
which lie in front of me are exactly the same
interesting, nothing to give hope,
that from someone from the company that started the magazine
the panic will ever come out with something worthwhile,

A lot of buzzy words, “revolutionary” and
“proletarian” - otherwise it is impossible in this country
time, and not a single living proletarian note.
And yes, it’s inadmissible, a farce
“Messianicism” in the vein of “Poems about Russia” “like
new, but last Rome" and "the coming ruler-

 stele from the East." ;

True, those editing the magazine “Six
young people,” offering kindly: “Are you in the field,
Are you in the city, worker, take this book and...
love us,” they modestly add: “love us
us little black ones,” promising at the same time that
“soon, soon we will be bright, likeblood
nalih banners and beautiful, like the face of a revolution
lucia in the sea of sun,” but the reader is better
will answer them with the words of their own “Art”

`to love’ a certain Mikhail Gipsy:

“Go to the field, fall in the grass, say:
God, how boring." -
It doesn’t matter that the Saratov intelligentsia
youth are adapting to the revolution yes
under proletarian art and what of it
nothing comes of it. It's bad that Saratov
Soveg gives them labor people's money for this
money and allows you to spoil good paper.
Cultural amateur activities of the province,

not only desirable, but also absolutely not.

bypassed. But, having taken up the necessary task
You can’t do it carelessly. Without intelligence

Ligent youth in this work of course _

`

_

can’t be avoided, but you can’t leave her without help.
zora, without harsh proletarian control,
otherwise she will never get out of
educated bourgeois family and school non-
unbearable vulgarity.

Practical advice to Saratov comrades:
if you wish that from your “Crucible”
the malleable, sonorous metal of the proletarian
culture, put your intellectual
youth to their proper place, giving them
secondary, technical role, the very same
Entrust editing of the journal to a worker
collegium.

T. Radvaneniy.

Въ

U, Proletarian Culture“, Organizing Bureau for So-

call All-Russian. Proletarian conferences. cult.-
enlightenment organizations. Moscow No. 1, 2, 3,4,
t 86 k.

"Flame", ed. Petrogr. Sov. slave. and Krasnoarm.
dep. No. 15, 21. Price. 50 k.

„Izvestia Kh.P. 0*, ed. Khud. Prosv. Dept.
Moscow Sov. Slave Soldier and Kr. Dep. No. 1, 2, 3, 4,
prices 1 rub. 50 k.

"Creativity", Book Publishing. “Creativity”, Mo-
skva, №№ 1,2, 3, 4, 5 Prices. 35 k.

“Creativity”, ed. Moscow Sov. Slave. and Red-
Arm. dep. Price 2 r. 50 k. No. 2, 3, 4.

“The Coming”, ed. "Petrograd. Proletkulta",
No. 4, 5, 6. Price. 60 k.

Metalist” Organ of the Central Committee of the All-Russian Federation.
Union Worker Metallistov No. 5. Price. 70 k.

"Metalist's Herald", Organ Center. K.

All-Russian Union Worker Metallistov No. 4, 5, 6.
Price 3 r. 50 k.

"Working World"
trawl worker
Tr. 25 k.

U "Science and R""Working Class", published by the Union of Workers
sneeze of Proletarian Societies. Price 40 k.

“The Crucible”, ed. Izvestia of the Saratov Sov-
depot No. 1, 2, 3. Price. 2 r. 25 k.

“Art”, ed. Theatrical and Musical
sections Dept. People. Enlightenment Moscow Sov. Slave.
Dep. No. 1, 2. Price. 2 r.

“Bulletin of the Ways of Communication”, izk. Commission
Put. Message No. 9. Price. 1 rub. 25 k.

“Zola”, A Stolganie, ed. Cross.
V. Ts. I. K. Tsen. 60 k.

“Letter to the Red Army”, ed. V. C. I. V.
Price 20 k.

“What does the law on freedom of conscience and freedom mean?

division of church and state,” ed. V. Ts. I. K.
Price 25 k.

at "Let's Live as a Commune",

ed. V. Ts. I. K. Tsen, 40 k.

editors received for review:

to Moscow Price
operative number 14. Price.

dept.

Sumatokhina,

‘

__ BURN.

"Dead Men of the Commune"
C | K. Pra 2,

“Working Mother”, A. Kolontai, ed. V. Ts.
I. in Prices 20 t 7 and

"The Organization of the Red Army", Trotsky, ed.
IN." Y, E Tsen. ok 2 o;

"The Red Army", Trotsky, ed. V. Ts. I. K.

Ep.

“What is Political Economy and why
she teaches,” Marchlevsky, ed. V. Ts. I. K.
Price 40 k.

“Our Banner”, ed. V. Ts, I. K. Tsen. 10 k.

“Learn military affairs”, ed. V. Ts. I. K,
Price 10 k.

"The first instructions for a national intelligence officer
weapons“, Kadomtsev 9. S., ed. V. Ts. I. K.

“Eye determination of distances”, Yu. S.
Volkov, ed. V.P.I.K. Tsen. 10 k.

“Instructions to the Red Army Soldier”, “Instructions
with 5 weapons" "Take care of your rifle"
ed. V. Ts. I. K. Tsen. 15 k.

“Learn to Operate a Machine Gun,” Beck A. ed.
V. Ts. I. K. Tsen. 10 k.

"Rifle Instruction for the village of Krasnoarmeytsev,
ed. V. Ts. I. K. Tsen. 15 k.

“What is a soldier of the Red Army?”, ed.
V. Ts. I. K. Tsen. 10 k.

“Memo”, ed. V. Ts. I. K. Tsen. 1 rub.

"Machine gun mount", ed. by V. Ts. I. K.
Price 50 k.

“What a demolition bomber needs to know,” M. P. Pu-
Zyrevsky, ed. V. Ts. I. K. Tsen. 60 k.

“Red Terror”, “What is Czecho-Slovak
movement." comp. Comrade A. Degtyarev, ed.
VC I.E.

„Hand and Gun Grapaty”, ed. by V. Ts.
I. K. Tsen. 60 k.

“Shooting from Machine Guns”, ed. V. Ts. I. K.
Price 60 k.

“What is intelligence”, ed. V. Ts. I.K. Ts.30 k.

“Fight”, ed. V. Ts. I. K. Tsen. 60 k.
“Memo for the Red Army,” ed.

V. Ts. I. K

“International pologenesis and the Red Army,” —

Trotsky, ed. V.: I.K: Price. 40 k.
g neither ed. Petrograd. Nroletkult.
‚ OE.

“In the Storm and the Flame”, Yaroslavl edition
Union slave printed affairs. Price 2 r. 50 k.

Arthur Arnoux, ed.)

Ri

Ve Russian Tsar Nicholas I. ed. |

I.K.—K. N. Lenin. Price 50 k.
why sob”, S. Koshkarov, ed.
V. Ts. I. V. Tsen. 75 k. } .
“The Tale of Uncle Pakhom”, ed. V. Ts. I. K.
Price 60 k.s.
“Spiritual Fathers”, Demyan Bedny, ed.
V. Ts. I. K. Tsen. 1 rub.

"Collection of Proletarian Writers", ed.
"Sail" PT, 3. in, 15-5.
at "Literary Almonach", 'ed. Prolet-

cult.

{ “Glow” by Pyotr Oreshin, poetry, book publishing.

"Revolutionary Socialism". Price 3 r.

"Leader de
Above B, 1. And; No.
“Breast, Discipline, Order”, L. Trotsky ed.:
V. and I.K. Tsen. 50 k.

ma b "24
and the poor`V. And Ulyanov,”

*

G:
No. 1

CHRONICLE.

{The entire material of the chronicle was collected and compiled by participants of the literary studio according to
#ursujournalism).

Life of the Moscow Prolet-
cult.

Literary Studio.

“New time—new songs”—that’s what you mean—
astonishment is, in the best possible way, characterized by
Literary Studio of Moscow Prolet-
cult, a completely new and big deal
construction of proletarian culture.

A literary studio in full swing
live work: friendly meetings are arranged
interviews with teachers, reading
poetry and prose are discussed and analyzed together -
is the organization where beginners
proletarian poets and writers draw the necessary
required knowledge of versification, journal-
Sticks, Russian literature, etc. p.

Classes in the studio are divided into two
groups: 1) prose and 2) poetry and are produced
in the evenings. from 6 to 9 -10 hours 4 times a day
a week for group 1 and 3 times for Ra

The following items are available: for the 1st group:
Theory of prose of the 20th century - Comrade. Brender, Russian
literature 70-80 XX century. Comrade Lebedev-

Olyansky, history of culture comrade. Bogdano-
vym, the theory of ancient writing—t. Schwartz,
cc by Czechowoo—t. Brander, literature
40 XX century - Comrade, Kherson, theory of journal-
leaflets and seminaries on journalism, etc. t.
Brender and Zaitsev; for 2nd group: Poetry
Pushkin - Comrade Khodasevich, versification

X century—t. Rubanovich, history of the theater Comrade Eichen-
Golts, theory of folk poetry - Comrade. Schwartz,
theory of versification and seminaries in poetry
addition - comrade Andes. White. On Sundays
Literary interviews are organized
under the leadership of Comrade Schwartz.

All studio listeners are involved in the
position in the magazine “Gorn”, which is what they get
possibility in parallel with theoretical
also gain practical knowledge.

Ushatel, showing a keen interest in the development
studios elected their elders, who
entered the literature as equal members
publishing department and the literature department
`rature studio. At the request of the listeners

4

a fee for listening to lectures has been set at
at least 15 rubles.

Office for registration in the number of employees
cove studio is open daily from 1 to 5 pm
and from 7-8 p.m.

In view of the composition of the complete set of listening
teley, registration for the literary studio will be
stopped from November 1st.

M.B.

Literary and publishing department.

The task of the literary and publishing department
is the publication of books on creative techniques,
literary, musical, and artistic
nogo, and works of proletarian poets and
writers. From the works of the latest three-
it is tried that they should be in spirit
letarian, i.e. they should be on your face
elements of vivacity” and cheerfulness, feeling
collective spirit, revolutionary spirit and prolongation
Tara life, and, of course, they should
be completely artistic and complete.

The department has already published a collection of 4 poets “Plant
Firewing" and now his second one is coming out
publication is being printed and will soon be published
we need to come out Comrade Gerasimov’s poem “Monna Lisa”
and “Versification Course”—Valery Bryusov.
Scheduled for publication “History and Theory of Journalism”
nalistiki", T. Brender, "Theory of Prose", vol.
Stolyarova, “Red Morning”, T. Aleksandrov-
sky, collection of poems “Spring Plant” -
collection of short stories—“Flowers under fire”German,” T. Ge-
Rasimova, literary almanac, etc.

Nemchenko.

Theater department.

Currently there is a large
influx of people wanting to work in drama. stu-
diyah-per day 5-6 are recorded (and then
more) person. In view of this, the division began
dividing all students into two groups - aging
Shui ‘and the younger one. The division produces
selected by the theater examination board"

12

90 E in: Me:

option commission. Lessons for younger groups
will be sent exclusively to the hundred-
development of external and internal
actor's apparatus (plasticity, diction,
voice training, stage exercises).
Senior groups are already starting to work
over passages, roles and plays, study
makeup, decorative arts, getting acquainted
with a theoretical part (history of theater, literature)
culture of the arts, etc.).

After each regional studio
will be divided into these two groups, reception
in the studio, in order to organize the work, there will be
closed for 3 months. Those who wish
re-enter will be included in special
lists and once every three months in the center they
money the exam was carried out. Before the exam
writers can visit studios as
as volunteers, on the terms and conditions of the
poured in each studio independently
specifically.

A special audit commission, which
includes so-called Smyshlyaev, Sudakov, Gaidarov
and Wild, periodic detours are carried out
all the studios that have to find out everything
shortcomings and possible gaps in teaching
th business management.

Theater studio.

Now all normal studio classes are canceled
walked into the background and turned all attention
Puppy in preparation for the October celebrations.
They stage a dramatization of Verhaeren's poem
“Uprising”, directed by an artist
Nogo theater comrade Smyshlyaev, in addition, is ready
a plastic picture hangs in three parts
Darkness", "Rush" and "La Marseillaise", under the direction of
Vodetvo Alekseeva. Llya “Uprising” comrade.
Nechaev writes music. Twice a week
rehearsals are taking place. Sunday—general
for all studios: After each rehearsal ru-
leaders exchange opinions with students
kami, which gives a lot of useful and interesting
for both sides

Stage exercises are conducted in the studio,
plastic. makeup, diction and voice production,
recitation, literary history and history
theater and also students get acquainted with the
how to work on a play. In total there are
students and from regional studios - 300 people,
13 studios have already been opened in the districts. They arrive
requests from other areas and places. When
the power of the Proletkult theater studio in
Basmanny district is preparing for production
plays: “At the Bottom” - Gorky and “Poverty is not
rock" - Ostrovsky; in Simonovsky: “Dawns”—
Verharna; in Bogorodskoye: “Weavers”—Gautman and
in a number of other areas there are a number of interesting
works It is planned to install “Green” here
ny parrot“—scene from French. revol. Schnitz-
Lera. Good voices are being discovered. Academic
niks show significant amateur activity
ness. General meetings are convened frequently,
to the extent necessary. In preparation for October,
celebrations, work in some
in its various departments, such as in the field of plastics,
diction and recitation. Classes take place from
7 o'clock evening until an unspecified hour

y.

wishes of the participants. Fee 20 rub. in me-
syats was determined by the students themselves. Studio well-
is expected in his own theater.

The studio's classes are headed by comrade. Smy-
Shlyaev Teachers invited: stage
Zesky exercises - T. Smyshlyaev, plastics -
T. Chayanov, diction—T.O. Kogan, according to history -
tvatra—D. Kogan, on the history of Russian literature
ratures - Antokolsky, according to makeup, laws
speech and correct reading... Zealand.

Nemchenko.

Music studio.

Music department at Moskovok
Proletkult studio opens from September 10
folk musical instruments. Studio
has two tasks: to give a complete
musical education for everyone
learn to play folk instruments
property on domra and prepare the frame
instructors who could independently
but to run such studios. First
the group accepts everyone who declares their
desire to get acquainted with © folk music
cal andinstruments. Upon admission
the second requires elementary musical
literacy (knowledge of notes) and ability to master
any one musical instrument
vol. All studio students are divided into groups
so that new arrivals
slowed down the work of students who had been studying for a long time and
At the same time, we managed to go through what others
already done. Classes are held in the evening
frames, for new arrivals - on Mondays
Kam, for the rest - on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
what does the 2nd group (instructors) do
from 5 to 7 pm, 1st (studio) - from
7 o'clock to 10:

In the central studio he studies” about
60 people. There have already been 28 requests for
opening studios in the regions. Three are open so far.

Preparatory work is currently underway in the studio
work for the October celebrations, presumably
are preparing to stage: Song about the Tatar
complete—arranged by Rimsky-Korsakov,—Ka-
Linushka with raspberry, Pius let's whoop! - in shape
Balakirev's boot, - Little blue dove - in
arrangement of Tchaikovsky and a number of other music
cal works.

The studio organized an orchestra, which
is now preparing for the October celebrations "In-
international*, “Workers’ Marseillaise”, “Fran-
Tsuz Marseillaise" and Russian folk
songs in Russian artistic adaptation
masters .

A choir will perform together with the orchestra, preparing
promoted by regional studios; such

choir groups now exist around Shea.

the number of their participants reaches 200
man.

Head of the music department
announced by Comrade Krasin, head of the studio—
Lyubimov.

Nemchenko.

IE

yeah. Anna

5 aa

howled

g

given -

No. t

EORN.

This

Club department.

‚ The club department has existed for 11/ months:
Its task is to instruct
exemplary workers' clubs in the regions. Bye
two clubs are preparing to open: one in
Skvoretsk district, another at the professional
National Union of Tailors “Igla”. :

There are many requests from the regions. Developed
program of clubs whose task is to
exemplary organization of club business for
adults and youths. It is expected to create
houses of the Proletarian cultry with concert
and lecture halls with a capacity of 150–309
man, library and reading room, with good
selection of books, rooms for physical exercises
classes and clubs and studios Pro-
letkult, as well as a buffet.

——

Youth section.

The youth section should be closely connected
zana with adults and have a separate
room. There are 13 work clubs in the districts.
melting, with the assistance of the Youth Union „1

international”, which has equal pre-
presentation in Proletkult. Out of 13
5 clubs works fine. In youth
department, the program includes music and all kinds of
possible entertainment, and a kindergarten.

Library.

The library - reading room currently has
time about .3 thousand books. It is assumed
We will soon replenish it with the latest
valuable books for the work of studio students.
Italian is open for reading every day,
including holidays, until 8 pm.

——

Department of Fine Arts.

Drawing and painting classes are held
artists Ivanov and Kolesnikov. For-
about 50 students wrote, but in fact
There are only 10-12 people working in the studio, which
96 is clear from the range of the distance. Works
The students were’ exhibited at the Higher Women’s
Courses.

Still working in the sculpture workshop
has not yet improved at all due to the small amount
number of students, which is explained by poor
information. The sculpture department is headed by
E sculptor Weiner. Sculptural works
we are also exhibited in the mentioned building

month of September. Classes come from

Until 8 pm, and on Sundays from 3 to 5
evenings.

There is also a graphics department, which
headed by Comrade Falileev. Classes are taking place

Until 8 p.m.

The Drawing Department is headed by Comrade Rumanov.
Classes take place from 11.7 to 1/3 9 pm.
-it is planned to organize a series of lectures on

questions of art by region.

for students who have made great progress
about inventory, workshops have been opened, where under the ru-

led by Ivanov, Uraltsova, Boytsov and

Olesnikov, orders from Proletkul-

44

ta. To enable workers
have a completed art education
neithere, which they could then attach
in your enterprise to your work, poek-
is expressed by entering into contact with a professor. union-
mi, take from factories that have shown an attraction to
one or another kind of art, workers,
leaving them a salary all the time while studying,
so that they return when finished
course back and applied their knowledge to work
both.

On the 27th the General Meeting of the students took place
members of Proletkult with representatives
regional studios. The issue of c0-
the status of the studio members and the goals of Proletkult. Stra-
heated debates flared up on the level of
division of the concepts “proletarian” and “intellectual”.

According to some, the yardstick for determining
the concept of “proletarian” is not material.
new position and not an ideology, but a place in pro-

production process. Only worker, proletarian

in the latter sense, will be the creator of pro-
Tara culture, and Proletkult studio
must be laboratories of a new culture. /
Intellectuals, as carriers of the old culture,
will slow down this work and must leave
nut Proletkult, at least in ideology and
were with the workers. Workers occupying
the highest elected officials should, and in their own way
development suitable closer to the intelligentsia,
have the right to be in Proletkult, because
are closely connected with the working masses of their
experiences. The main core of Preletkult
must consist exclusively of workers,
and intellectuals can work in schools, or-
organized by the Commissariat of Education.

According to others, the definition is based
these concepts must be based on ideological
logic and financial situation. Happening
life is not decisive, because
often people who came from a bourgeois environment
are adopted by the working class if they go with
they are neck and neck in the common struggle. Most
a striking example is the Simbirsk plant-
Shchik Lenin, currently adopted
leader of the proletariat. In Proletkult place
to everyone who is a party worker -
a communist and burns with the fire of socialism.

As a result of long debate, unanimously
the following resolution was adopted: “students
kami of Proletkult studiosGut to be work.
chie and nitelligents from the working class, closely
associated with the latter."

In addition to this resolution, it was decided
create reception rooms in regional studios
commissions, which, in cases of doubt, should
wives will contact the central commission
this, composed of members of the Isp. K-ta and
elders elected by the studio members.

The task of these commissions also includes
verification of the real composition of the studio.

the meeting ended with the singing of revolutionary

songs.
N. Aframeev.

12*

Scheme of classes in the Central Studios of the Moscow Mova Ava (Vozdvizhenka, 16).

skiy department

E | Literary publisher,

nuzynalny department.

|
next department |

Club department. |

| Youth section.

1st group.
oh fairy
Until 8 p.m.

ra
80
_ from >. about 10 p.m.

. Nth group.
Pushkin's poetry,
: from 6 to 8 p.m.
Decree of the twentieth century,
| from 8 to 10 p.m.

== geraturz |

B

53 Lessons © again

stepping and ota-

lazy listeners,
from TO 9 p.m.

Instructional classes
current courses,

from 5 to 7 p.m. |

Classes with studio students,

from 7 to 9 p.m.

Pony.
from 7 to 9 p.m.
Classes on decorative |
new art,
from 9 p.m.

|
' Lecture on the laws of pb-
: chi and reading rules,

from 7 to 9 p.m.
Make-up, from 9 p.m.

[th group.
History of culture,
from 6 to pm
Literary theory
u. styles,
from 5 to 10 p.m.

at

.

| Stage exercises
niya, from 7 to 9 p.m. |
‹ Rehearsal of plastic

Russian number for
all int < from 9 p.m.

[th group.
"History of Russian dra-
we, from 6 to 8 p.m.
Folk theory
| ezia, from 8 to 10 p.m.

Instructional classes
tor courses,
from 5 to 7 hours, evening.
Classes with studio students,
from 7 to 9 p.m.

Diction and staging
voices,
from 7 to 9 p.m.
Lecture on history
literature, from 9 p.m.

|

| Column member's duty

Legia,

from 11 doses per day.

| Political school!
diplomas in preparation:
training of instructors
Union of Working Dairy
bowls
onal", from 3 to 5 p.m.,

Instructional meeting.
with members of collaborators,
gee,
from I to 8 o'clock in the afternoon.

Column member's duty
Legia,
from 11 to 8 p.m.: |

|

at the School of Political |
diplomas according to preparation
instructors
S.R. M. "Sh Ivterna- |
national"
from 3 to 5 p.m.

Column member's duty
Legia,
from 11 to 3 p.m.

„Sh International- |

otdfl fine
arts

— Drawing and painting,
from 6 to 8 p.m.
Sculpture, otbdo8 h.v.
| Rafika, from 6 to 3rd century.
Drawing,
from 61/; to 9 < pm

Drawing and painting.
from 6 to 8 p.m.
‘Sculpture, otbdoVch. c.
Graphics, from 6 to 8 hours.
Drawing,

Goth 61 to 91); h. pm

RIBI AND PAINTING,
from 6 to 8 p.m.
' Graphics, from 6 to 8 hours. c.
Drawing,
from 61/. until 9 p.m.

Drawing and painting,

. from 6 to 8 p.m.

'Sculpture, otbde8h. c.
Graphics, from 6 to 3. c.

Drawing,

G from 6 to 91], h.

1st group.
Journalism,
from 6 to 8 p.m.,-
‚ Literature of the 40s,
from 8 to 10 p.m.

Pth group.
Poetry,
from b to 9 p.m.

*

|

Orchestra rehearsal
from 4 to 6 p.m.
| Section meetings,
| from 6 to 7+/, h. evening.

|

.
|

oschwic exercises
nia,
from 7 to 9 p.m.
Rehearsal for "Uprising"
FROM 9 p.m.

Meeting of instructions
ditch with members of the team |
Legia, }

from 11 to 3 p.m.

Drawing and painting,
from 6 to 8 hours; evening
Sculpture, from bdo8h.v.
Graphics, from 6 to 8 hours. V.
Drawing,
from 61/, to 91/3 hours transported.

Lecture on history
theater,
from 7 to 9 p.m.

| Diction and staging |

voices, from 9 p.m.

School of Political

diplomas in preparation

training of instructors

S. R. M. “Sh Interna-
national"

| from to 5 hours.

|
| Column member's duty
| Legia,

from 11 to 3 p.m.

r
.

}

Drawing and painting,
. from 6 to 8 p.m.
Graphics, curfew until 8 a.m. V.

Drawing,
from 61/. up to 91]. h. pm

| 1st and 2nd groups.

Literary society.

sedation,
from 6 p.m.

}
1
| Rehearsal of plastic

ski number,
from 2 p.m.

Rehearsal “Uprising”|

from 5 p.m.

and
|
|
Duty of a member of the team |

Legia,
from I to 3 p.m.

Drawing and painting,
from 3 to 5 p.m.

56

5

No. t

By region.

"Sushchevskaya District Studio".

In a magnificent mansion of a quiet and cozy 2nd
Maryinsky Lane, accommodated the District School
diya "Proletkult". This studio serves

‚ Sushchevsko-Maryinsky working district.Currently the studio has two full
not organized Department: Dramatic
and Choral. The first one started working on July 10,
the second - from August 5th. But at full speed
the work started only now. Class hours:
Drama and choral studio classes
blackberry .

Drama Department—daily from 7 a.m. to

hour

Choral - three times a week. Students of Dra-
Mathematics Department—42 people. Percentage first
non-attendants was very large, and at one time
almost had to raise the question of closing
tii Studios.

Only the passionate desire of a few to learn
And their selfless energy saved the Studio.

Now the circle of students is rapidly expanding,
and a growing interest in dramatic
cultural art.

dramatic The department covers: plastics,
diction, recitation, makeup and stage.

By the way, for plastic lessons you need
dimo give students the opportunity to purchase
special suits. Ordinary suits
rhythmic movements and steps are very restrictive
The Indians ask for at least some cards to help them
purchases of fabric or ready-made suits for your own
means. The shortage is still acutely felt
in theatrical and stage literature and in
plastic manuals.

On the part of the workers there is a big
interest in Choral Studio. Lots of girls.

the choral song rushes powerfully and energetically
"Internationale" and foreshadows the victory of labor.

Among the participants of the Choral Studio there arose
desire to learn to play musical instruments
instruments: violin, domra, piano. Therefore
it was decided to organize at the District Studio

Department of Folk Musical Instruments
Comrade Recording has already started.

In addition, registration in the Department is accepted
Paintings. In the near future

a library and reading room are opening there.
Books are already being transported from the library of the book.

soup It is expected that the District will be founded
Nogo Museum.

All these organizational initiatives are
give a lively response among working youth—
studio members who even participate in
transportation of the library.

Local Council, on the basis of which the
van Studio, - in all endeavors and needs
very willing to help. He introducedThe studio is a comfortable mansion, equipped with the necessary
our inventory and put it at the disposal of St.
make a good library. On my own behalf, the Council of
and, as an experienced organizer, comrade.

tsova.

All Departments of the Studio, except Dramatic,
free (Dramatic 10 rub.) Classes about
are harassed only in the evenings from 7 to 10 o'clock.

cha

op. 93

Composition of students: workers and lower-level employees
defenders of Soviet institutions.

Leaders note a characteristic feature:
In the “era of 11/5 poods” the Studio was almost completely
froze. Now she has come to life with vigor and energy.
looks forward to the future.

In the past, the Choral Studio marked itself
participation in a demonstration concert during
Congress of Educational Organizations.

The Drama Department often sends students
diians to the central studio on Vozdvizhen-
Ke, 16, to participate in the Verkharnovsky “Vozsta-
Research Institute" being prepared for production in
October celebrations.

Now the Suschevsky District Studio is half-
its members are preparing for family
cheru. It was decided to “make a review of our strength.”
The evening will sum up the results of past work, indicating
knows its shortcomings, and thus intends to
This is the path for further creative work
studios.

In listeners one can note signs of
emerging cultural and creative force. Not-
there is almost no conscious element. To eat-
At their meeting, the listeners decided to agree
establish a charter that is binding on everyone and
began, among other things, to exclude
diy of everyone who did not attend two lessons, without respect
telny reasons.

OS

Zamoskvoretskaya Theater Studio: Pro-
letnulta.

In the wonderful Igumnovevsky mansion, on Bol-
shoy Yakimanke; dramatic fit
Studio for workers of the Zamoskvoretsk district.

Tudia exists for only 2-3 months, but
and in this short period of time the leaders of its de-
put a lot of effort into identifying creative
the strength of the proletarian actor.

The studio managed to combine all the work separately
different drama working circles
existing in the factories and factories of Za-
Moskvorechya. Studio manager, young
artist of the Chamber Theater, Comrade Olenin, toured
a number of factories and factories in the Oamaskvorechye region, etc.from-
vaya of workers who love performing arts
go to the working Studio to study.

The working masses will respond to this call.
was very enthusiastic and at the first general meeting
Up to 60 people were present at the studio.

Currently the Studio has formed
more or less stable group of 20-25
worker-actors, on whom the entire
Studio work.

Classes in the Studio are conducted according to certain
new plan. First you need to get acquainted
listeners with such necessary and
container objects such as diction, recitation,
harmonic gymnastics, stage im-
provisioning, makeup art, props and
etc. Interviews are being conducted on questions of es-
tics, history of art and theater.

Then they move on to performing the lift-off
kov from plays, among which we can note
“Scene in the tavern from Boris Godunov, interior
media of Cervantes, etc.
And finally, as the highest level, after two
three months of serious work, preparation
whole nes. 3

The same gradual work in the Studio brings
good results and studio workers - workers
they say that they went to the Studio with the purpose
start “playing” immediately. but after menstruation
They understood that you were serious in the Studio; what
we must start with the ABCs of theatrical art.

The most interesting work of the Studio is, not-
Of course, stage improvisations that give
the widest field for identifying free-
great creativity of the proletarian actor. Hand-
the studio driver or more often the listeners themselves
choose a topic, usually revolutionary ha-
actors and, collectively, perform it.

Zamoskvoretskaya Studio is currently rehearsing
under the guidance of a young studio artist
Art Theater Comrade Popov “Marriage”
Togol, a separate scene of which is very interesting
reenos are performed by the audience.

In parallel with learning the piece, rehearsing
residents listen to lectures introducing them to
Gogol's era and Gogo's characteristics
Lev characters.

Students also take excursions
to exemplary theaters for visual indication
communication with modern theater technology.

The studio is actively preparing for the great
About the October days.

PrevDedicated to the production of “More” Ver-
harna, plastic pantomine “Marseillaise”
and readings from Verhaeren, Wiptman and Gastev.

The studios are planning to stage "Dawns"
Verharna.

Classes at the Studio take place daily, not
excluding holidays from 7 pm.

Taught at the Studio: artist of the Chamber Theater
atra T. Olenin, artist of the Art Studio
Nogo theater t. Popov, t.t. Egorova, Nenasheva,
Lyubovsky, Kogan, etc.

Three times a week (Tuesdays, Thursdays)
evenings and Fridays) in the premises of the Studio
reading legends and fairy tales for petya and

teenagers
E. O—v.

Proletvult Theater Studio on
Presne.

Beautiful, located in a huge fruit-
garden, with centuries-old alleys, the dacha "Stu-
Denon“, reserved for the local theater

- Proletkult studios at present
Hastily renovated and classes are temporary
walk through the former club of the Left Socialist-Revolutionaries
Trekhgorny lane, house number 15. `

Both the dacha itself and temporary premises
studios are quite suitable for serious
theatrical performances. Lacha presents
two-story building, which has a library

- library, reading room, theater hall. by 400
people there is a foyer and a pantry room. Te-
the atr is already supplied with the necessary parts
decorations, props and a small theatrical
no library library. at

At the former club. s-ers studio enjoys

two large rooms, in one of which...

One has a stage, and the other has a piano.

-

BURN. t

This room studio prefers to hold- _
reap behind you for educational purposes and in the distance
the most important thing, which is what negotiations are currently underway. _

Despite the recent emergence -
The studio's bot has already been set up. Enrolled so far
34 people, exclusively young people. Record
continues. Classes are conducted in plastic surgery,
diction and recitation. Much attention has been paid to
lies. stage exercises. Happening _
Classes are held daily from 7 to 10—3 o'clock _
evenings. They are led by the comrades of Deidkarkha-_
Nov and Deykarkhanov, investing in the new -
it seems to be your whole soul. Between mo-_
the studio's youth and managers feel
Xiacompletely tired, purely comrade- -
Sky connection. Interest in meaningful work with
the youth's side is complete. ‹

It is planned to open a theater at the dacha -
in the coming days. Now under the leadership of |
Comrade Deykarkhanov are rehearsing for the first _
performance of the play “Prudence” by Bilibin, “1 Yubi-
lei" Chekhov. Rehearsals, at the same time and _
lessons are happening with great enthusiasm, Uka-
leadership knowledge—real lectures, live
perceived by young people.

The upcoming October anniversary will pass- |
the Tara revolution will be solemnly celebrated
celebrated by the studio.

The studio receives great support from.
side of the Presnensky Council of Workers and Kras- _
army deputies, which has _
special theater council. G,

Local youth ask for opening at
theater section and music and choir _
departments.

and now and will undoubtedly develop into a great
cultural and educational work in the near-
Let's have a future.

Turchaninov.

Bugyrskaya District Studio _ Prolet- |
zero on Butyrki. A

The regional cell of Proletkult is located -
in a large white house on Vyatskaya Street. at
in the same premises of the Butyrsky Council of Deputies of the organi- _
founded an evening school for adults and
her

Proletkult meetings take place in the evenings; o
from 7 o'clock in a large one-light hall; here -
in the corner there was a bureau of elders nestled - listening.
telei, whose secretary keeps a journal for-_
nyatiy. Characteristic ra- _
bots, number of students attending classes
and impressions of work.

Proletkult has opened two sections—dra
mathematical - classes five times a week and _
music - three times a week. Work _
The dramatic section is headed by O. A. Eber-
man. Listeners recite and analyze
works of art, with hand-
The driver gives explanations along the way about.
the personality and significance of the author and his works.
Classes are held under her leadership and
theater area and in this area comrade. Eberman

No. t

a lot has been done. Classes on plastics, on them-

- improvisation of individual scenes given by the director;

driver - go in parallel with training -
withprices from “Nedorosl”—Fonvizin and
"The Robbers" - Schiller.

Voice production and diction are taught
Headed by M. L. Bebutova.

The music section is headed by Comrade. I.A.
Luminarsky. A choir has been created, engaged in natoya-
currently unlearning revolutionary
Timnov. Along the way, you learn musical notation
mota. In the future it is planned to move
to the study of folk songs. If there are
interested, it is proposed to open classes
on musical instruments, on the piano, and
also for solo singing, if there is a listening ear
tel with a corresponding voice.

The Proletkult cell is actively preparing
to celebrate the anniversary of the revolution. Both
its sections propose to co-organize
together and stage a concert, detailed
a program for which has not yet been developed.

N.S.

\t
\a “Ha

t
Basmannaya District Studio.

June 18 on Poshtovaya street, No. 2, in the building
"Workers' Palace" opened a theater school
diya "Forward". At first there were no listeners
many, currently their number
increases, 2 groups are formed: senior and
the youngest, in the first there are about 25 people, in the second
oh, half as much. Classes are conducted according to

Weekly, Wednesday and Thursday. Tova-
Rishma Egorova teaches plastic surgery; decla-
mation, diction and various dramatic exercises
life, separate scenes are played out
Under the leadership of Comrade Sudakov. By
Lectures on history are given on Tuesdays
theater - Comrade Eichenholtz, on Friday
students on the history of literature—vol. Antokolsky.
currently the studio members are intensely
preparing for the October celebrations “On the Dne”
orky, so classes, at the request of the student,
dDiytsev, are produced every day. In the Studio
There is a piano on which, if desired, you can
Learn to play. In the "Workers' Palace" building,

in addition to the theater studio, there are: Music-

vocal and choir studios, painting and for
low-literate literacy studio. The other day
Foreign language studio opens:
French, German and others. Testaments
paid, in the evenings. Recording is in progress
®daily from 7 to 10 pm.

N.M.

Evening in memory of the writer-worker M.
Tikhoplestsa,

October 13, in the premises of the school named after the poet
from the people of I. 3. Surikov, members of Surikovsky
literary and musical circle was honored
memory of the writer-worker M. Tikhoplests (M.
Loginov), who died of fulminant consumption

October 6, 1912.

43

RKER. E

95

Opening remarks by Council Member Suri-
Kovsk circle Deev-Khomyakovsky touching
solving tasks and developing activities
mug in the device area on the outskirts
cities of literary evenings and concerts, and
also publications of works by self-written writers
the check vividly described Tikhoplesets as
a simple-minded spokesman for the people's thoughts.

The writers and poets who spoke later
motherfuckers Shkulev, Ganshin, Savin, Gorokhov and
etc. in poems and memories even brighter
described the type of writer - a loser, a
Daltsa-worker; forever restless, © book,
with a newspaper in his bosom, with eternal work about production
publication of collections, newspapers for the people on their own
the last laborers, obtained with bloody sweat
pennies...

“We weren’t published then,” they recalled.
the bitter fate of a failed writer:—we are not
printed because we told others
tongue, because we didn't sing about the sun, oh
well-fed peace, when there was thick darkness all around;
we sang “simple songs about hunger, about the poor,
about slavery, we were alien to the literature of the upper classes.

as the late Tikhoplesets also wrote...
Duma

“Their worker writer wrote in blood
There wasn't enough blood and strength!..—

And at the 41st year of his life, Tikhoplesets
died in a hospital bed... There was nothing to do
bury... Friends collected pennies...

The evening ended with the performance of folk
songs by amateur artist Ivanov and recited
nium of the works of Tikhoplesets.

The evening passed interestingly, and we have to...

It's a pity that there weren't many strangers...

I will say a few words about the Surikov circle.

Previously, before the revolution, I couldn’t find the circle
refuge in Moscow, and the members of his community
ran for conversations in taverns and at home—
now he received, by order of Sushchev-
The Sko-Maryinsky Council of Deputies has excellent premises.

In addition to arranging evenings, Surikovsky
literary and musical circle gathers
to the nearesty exhibition all works
self-taught writers of Russia, as in manuscripts,
and published in collections and magazines.

S. Obradovic.

Citywide health insurance fund.

Cultural and educational activities
The City Health Insurance Fund was located
until now, under the jurisdiction of medical and sanitary
‹ department, which in June organized a re-
traveling exhibition and literary group,
accompanying this exhibition and arranging
I give lectures in the regions by invitation.
Exhibits of the exhibition: 1) various diseases,
especially contagious and ways to prevent them
2) social insurance abroad
tsei (in England, France, Germany) and here
in Russia. During the summer period the exhibition managed
go around 4 districts, meeting the liveliest inte-
res from the defense of the working masses. In winter she will
children to be placed as a permanent institution
on Nov. Basmannaya, in building No. 18 and will begin operating
pioneer at the end of October.

96

OSN

Currently cultural and educational
work transferring specially educated
nomu at Mobkass Cultural-Educational-
nom Department and Cultural Education. Commissions at
re rn Department.

in the near future, in addition to the exhibition,
relies: 1) monthly reading in the district
Onam 2-4 lectures! on insurance issues and
medicine, 2) opening of regional libraries for
the same questions with all sorts of indications
reference books on the activities of the Hospital
‘noy Cash Office, 3) opening of the Central Bible.
on general issues and 4) libraries in all
fiction hospitals. In addition, before
an agreement was reached with theaters to provide
reserving tickets for ticket office participants. Distribution
division of tickets is assumed through
gats.

(Certificates can be obtained from the Organizing Bureau—
Myasnitskaya, Bankovsky lane, 2.

"Palace of Proletarian Culture".

On Smolensky Boulevard, in house number 26,
former Ushkova opens “Palace Prole-
Tara Culture".

The following studios are organized in the palace:
visual, dramatic, musical
naya, choral and literary.

choral and music studios already
made -recording on Tuesdays, Fridays-
tsam and saturdays, from Tuntil 8 p.m.

courtyard, except studios it is expected
organize a museum and library.

By province.

Cultural and educational activities
the province is extremely poorly developed. No
initiative, no employees, no skill
There are no funds to take on this matter. From the sent-
answers to the questionnaire of the People's Commissariat
of the Enlightenment, undertaken with the aim of
determine the quantity and nature of work
many educational organizations in Russia,
their needs and demands, most of the thirst
complains about the lack of funds and instructions
ditch: they are asking to send lecturers who
would explain to them what needs to be done in order
organize Proletkults, they ask for an example -
catalogs that they could use
be used when installing a reading room
liotek.

Almost everyone demands the sending of literature
magazines and newspapers that are not published there.
Some do not have enough convenient and
large premises where they could locate
go to bed all cultural and educational
organizations.

Comrades of the Aostroma Construction Union
workers complain about the lack of
new understanding of the meaning of cultural and pro-
lighting work and are asked to send

literature, where it is simple and clear in small
brochures would outline the role of literacy
ity and education in human life.

In Vyatka at the district workers' committee
Water Transport is formed culturally
educational department that cannot
to widely develop its activities due to
availability of funds and necessary materials.
Recently he came to their aid
local committee of the communist party (pain-
Sheviks), supplying them with free literature
tour and giving lecturers who read in different
personal issues of local construction.
Members of the union, to create a common big
library reading rooms donated to the department
their home libraries, consisting of pre-
mainly from works of fiction:
skikh,

They have an acute question about... indoors.

In the mountains Chembare is culturally-promotional. department
exists under the `Sovdep. They organize
often performances, lectures and conversations on economics
mic and polytechnical issues that
workers visit them very willingly. But they
there are almost no instructors, lecturers who know
people;

In the mountains Krasny, Smol. gub., with the union of ser-
there is a musical-dramatic
ski circle that works quite
lively, puts on performances, arranges
concerts.

In the city of Venev, at the Bureau of People's Workers
education formed a drama club
zhok, whose song is to cover the entire county with such
circles and organize the correct te-
atral representations. He has already created
one mobile theater and several permanent
new, it is planned to create a library
and the museum.

Vg. DLanilove Yaroslav. lips exists
People's house, where they are placed with the help of
amateurs from among the members of the employees' union
performances that attract large numbers of people
spectators and being the only cultural
tourist entertainment in the city. But they need
they are strong in the scenery, costumes, buta-
phoria and do not have suitable premises.

In most cities and counties there are
Tara cultural organizations are completely
are absent or are in their infancy
standing.

We need people and money.

There is a great desire for cultural work everywhere
strong, but they don’t know how to satisfy her. And in
all this central educational organizations
organizations should come as far as possible
ness, to help the province.
Mr. M. Nemchenko.

>

Editor: Editorial Board. Publisher: Moscow Proletnult,

chz

EE EE EN

Literary. Publishing Department of the Moscow Proletkult.

SUBSCRIPTION IS OPEN
TO AN ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE

"BURN".

MOSCOW PROPETKUPT MONTHLY
Published with the participation of all Moscow employees. Ave., both teachers and students.

The price of a separate room is 3 rubles. 50 k.

ADDRESS OF THE EDITORIAL AND OFFICE. Moscow, Vozdvizhenka, 16, reception daily from
1 o'clock to 5 o'clock in the afternoon and from 7 o'clock to 8 o'clock in the evening.
PUBLISHED: “Flowers Under Fire,” stories by M. Gera-
“Firewing Plant.”, a collection of poems by Simov.
Aldexandrovskolo, Gerasimova, Eroshina, “Collection” of poems by V. Aleksandrovskolo.
Nikolaev. PREPARING FOR PRINTING:
PUBLISHED: “The Theory of Prose” by M. Stolyarov.
„Ogi Factory"winged", 12th edition). "Journalism" by V. Brender.
"Monna Lisa", poem by M. Gerasimov. “Poetry” by Andrei Belaya.

“Spring Plant”, poems by M. Gerasimov.

NEITHER HER

"Proletarian Culture"
“BODY OF THE ALL-RUSSIAN PROLETKULT COUNCIL”.
IS PUBLISHED ONCE A MONTH.
The price of each room is 1 rub. 59 k.
Please send money to pay for the magazine to:

Moscow. Smolensky Blvd., 26 to the editor of the journal. "Proletarian Culture"

King publishing house of the All-Russian Proletkult Council.

Ah, Bogdanov. Art and the working class.. Sh r. - k.
1. Bogdanov. Socialism science E o S
"Lunacharsky. Proletarian writers, (prepared

for printing).

Protocols Perv, All-Russian. Propetkult conferences edited by

P.I. Pebedev-Popyansky.
(Printed).

oval $

oh