PROPETARIAN OF ALL COUNTRIES, UNITE

GOR

VSEROSSNNENKNI

PROLETKULT
1909
CONTENTS.

1. Advanced about 3
2. A. Sokolov. —Lamplighter, poetry... ... 7
3. A. Arkhangelsky. — From “Radio Poem”,
ORILI a oo
4. R. Eideman.—“The Flying Dutchman”, poetry
translation from Latvian :....,.... 8
5. A. Makarov.—0 spring, poetry...... 9
6. A. Zapolsky.—Under the sound of wheels, story. 10
7. Yu. Dobrynin.—The departure of Mavra, story. . 12
8. B. Yurtsev.—Uprising, inst. according to E. Ver-
khanu oe. sleep ve 15
Cultural issues.
9. V. Pletnev.—Modern momelt and
Proletkult dachas .,........ 20
10. I. Kan. - Three types of crops. ...... 28
Economy and public.
11. I. Trainin.—Genoa Conference. . 37
12. S. Zander.—Economics and politics ... 48
13. V. Bazarov. —Projects and experiences of social
tion of the national economy in Germany 57
14. K. Sh.—Immutable praise to capitalism. 65
15. V. Pletnev. —New front....... 67
16. Write to all proletarians. R.S.F. S.R. 73
17. G. G—Letters from St. Petersburg...... 71
Science and labor.
18. M. Piolunkovsky. — Science and work. . 27
19. V. Pertsov. —Modern problems of science about
ore: o oo 80
20. K. Kekcheev. — How the choice is made
professions abroad. ....... 82
Professional movement.
21. M. Polin.—Cultural and educational ra-
Bot of trade unions -;.........- 85
22. R. Ginzburg.—Workers’ clubs under the new
economic policy....... 94
Art.
25. V. Smyshlyaev.— About the workers’ theater.... 103
24. B. A. —Reflect, imitate or build 107

25. B. Kushner. —Music and work
26. S. Grigorzv. —New factory
27. Semyon Rodov. Reply to S. Grigoriev

Abroad.

23. Proletkult movement in the West.

29. Italy.——Proletkult Institute

30. Germany.—To friends and members of the pro-
Tara Theater

Criticism and bibliography.

31. Scarifier.—Stages of Latvian development—
skoy proletarian poetry. 32. I. Bee-
Lintsev. — Novels by A. Bibik. 33. S.
Olenev.—And it was (from an old chronicle).
34. Semyon Rodov. —Exhausting vy-
lost. 35. Cl. Lavrova.—Fedor Solo-
lips —Snake charmer. 36. P. Yaro-
howl. Mikhail Gerasimov.—Negashaving
strength. 37. Semyon Rodov. — Dash
lightning 38. Semyon Rodov.—In a hurricane.
39. S. Obradovic.—October. 40. S. 0.—
G. Chulkov.—Poems. 41. Sk.—
Latsis-Sudrabs. - Last Stand. 42.
B.A.-Yu. N. Drazen.—Music and re-
revolution. 43. V.B.—Young Guard
No. 1-2. 44. Cl. Lavrova. —Create No. 3—
4. 45. I. Pchelintsev. Dawns of the Future
No. 1. 46. \/.— Life No. 1. 47. Fidelio—
Scroll No. 1. 48. A. B.—Creativity No. 7.
49. Mac.-F. Korshunov.—Song of the Perished
whites of Kyiv

Life of Proletkult.

50. Moscow .Gubproletkult. 51. Tula
Gubproletkult. 52. Rybinsk Lip-
Proletkult. 53. Tver Gubprolet-

at mov
54. 4th Moscow Provincial Conference Prolet-
o
55. 2nd Cultural Conference M.G.S.P.S...

Announcements.

121

129

151

15%
159
r. ©. <. *. TR.

Workers of all countries, unite!

RN

BOOK 1 (6)

LITERARY-ARTISTIC
AND POPULAR SCIENTIFIC MAGAZINE

Year of publication 5th

EDITION
ALL-RUSSIAN AND MOSCOW PROLETKULTS
MOSCOW SINCE 1922
U

b I ini s

FROM RELAXATION.

The editors of the Horn, taking into account the ever-increasing desire of their comrades
workers to form a clear idea of revolutionary creativity
cultural movements of our time, to understand complex phenomena
our reality, to find out our own role and meaning,
as a class, in the processes of creative transformation of life, - decisively
changes the general character of the magazine from this issue.

The craving for comprehensive and holistic knowledge takes possession of the most
broad proletarian masses and steadily seeps into the very

thickness of it.
This process, however, unfolds very slowly: the task of re-

divisions of the proletariat - to accelerate this process of awareness of modern
different reality. Accurately take into account the intersecting forces in it,
clearly ‘understand. the general line of its development is necessary in order to

The participation of the proletariat in the creativity of life was conscious and planned.

measured, so that the proletariat masters the instruments of its transformation.

Among the tools - one of the first - the organizing power of the printed
words. |
The editors of "Gorn" intend tothis will go far beyond
gels of literary and artistic material that previously constituted
the main content of the magazine, and in the future significantly expand
range of issues covered on its pages.

The struggle of the proletariat is complex and multifaceted;
phenomena of his creativity and they do not fit completely into the framework
only ‘economic or only political or narrow cultural
questions; the front against the bourgeoisie in the struggle for socialism is continuous,

be a continuous line. Classes intersect on all facets of life

contradictions.
To fail less and recover from defeats more easily

And to be a winner everywhere, the proletariat is forced to develop its own
=

a.
en <.

special class approach, use your special class point
perspective on the phenomena of life, on its practical and theoretical tasks and
achievements.

The interests of the working class include questions of technology itself
production taking place under the conditions of capitalism as classical,
modern and post-war; is essential
studying new methods of labor organization and management; indisputably
it is necessary to have a clear understanding of the different types of cooperation,
about groupings both within the working class of a given country,
and about the relationship between the proletariat of individual states

It is no less important for the proletariat to be well acquainted with the
personal groups within the bourgeoisie itself, to be able to clearly differentiate
to navigate the ideological trends that dominate among the intelligentsia.
The latter is especially important now here in Russia, when in connection with the new
economic policy in the country is growing a wave of petty-bourgeois elements,
feeding, on the one hand, the village strong kulak individual
dual economy, and, on the other hand, urban speculation and inevitably

the layer of former technical {
specialists who have far from outlived their old capitalist ideology |

and psychology. The intelligentsia, overwhelmingly hostile
constructiongenuine socialism, feels in the conditions of the new
newly strengthened economic policy, tries its hand, organizes
its own special - and very serious - ideological front against pro-

tariat (organization of the legal profession, professors, doctors). This requires

rebuff. And you need to know the enemy well, his strengths and weaknesses, in order to

successfully defend and attack. :

The conquests of science, its rapid growth and flourishing, its powerful
revolutionary tendencies, sometimes radically breaking the established ones
centuries-old views should and will find a response on the pages of our magazine.
Issues of art cannot and should not be largely ignored.
its various manifestations.

There is not a single phenomenon of life - to whatever sphere of experience it may be
related to which the proletariat could remain indifferent.

Everything must be taken into the field of his class vision, his task, his own
strives to select what is valuable and eliminate what is unnecessary or harmful.

In the furnace of your class consciousness, in the Flame of your practice 02.
must melt down old values, burn them out with the fire of Marxist criticism ^

everything worthless, old, with its roots in the world of exploitation

E

|

E - 5 eat - .

a

= >>:
„=>

—B —

and enslavement, to discard slag and alien to its class nature
knead. :

However, in the possible abundance of material, the editors will clearly
bring forward some of the most important points.

These are, firstly, the moments that characterize revolutionary activism.
ity of the proletariat, directly directed against domination
bourgeoisie. This struggle is taking place on an international scale, and at the same time
The section will also cover the activities of the working class.

Secondly, not only his revolutionary
revolutionary-combat achievements, but also his active-creative, positive,
creative tasks, not only partial - albeit grandiose ones - but
and holistic, all-organizational, related to economics or politics,
to the field of both ideology and culture in the broad sense of this
words.

Thirdly, the editors and staff will do their bestyour efforts
to evaluate our complex reality from an angle
view of socialist construction, and will try in all directions
magazine and a number of special articles definitely put forward the main, historical
the most important all-determining task facing the proletarian
riatom - the task of a world, planned socialist organization
production. In this regard, the idea of
the need for comprehensive self-preparation of the proletariat to fulfill

this historic mission, that efforts should be directed

to find the shortest, most economical ways to solve this
tasks that he should systematically and deeply develop his
production consciousness.

The staff and editors expect to fulfill the planned
gram, giving the corresponding material in a strictly scientific Marxist
and at the same time a popular form. The magazine hopes to master the
mania and trust of the proletariat as a whole, to find friends in the ranks
those who, during the difficult years of the civil war, defended the approaches to
to the Soviet Republic, to meet a sympathetic response in the ranks
growing young proletarian intelligentsia, workers' listeners
faculties and among the Communist Youth Union.

It is not only simple passive

the sympathy of our readers, but also their active participation in life itself

magazine. Being in the thick of the readership, they are lighter and faster
can grasp how the working masses live at the moment, what their

IL Cha” Gtchvyi ak Zy you
—6 —

Knows what questions require clear and precise answers. Correspondence

from the field, various kinds of instructions, notes and articles coming from circles’ chi-
ately, this is what we crave from our readers. Should
once and for all to destroy the conventional barriers separating the magazine
from his reader; in this area, as in all others in which
the proletariat participates, everything must proceed under the sign of the collective
creativity and friendly cooperation. Only with thesewords
a magazine can be vital, fresh, interesting, and meet the needs
class struggle and class creativity of the proletariat.

A more in-depth theoretical formulation and solution of the same
questions will be devoted to the pages of the main magazine of our organization
"Proletarian Culture".

Editorial.

z.-2

*&

4

Fiction.

Lamplighter.

Like being stained with soot at dusk,
Came out with a blue blouse

Behind the locomotive water pump
The yellow flashlight lit up.

Then the top of the semaphore,

I lit it. More and more flash and shine
Above the network of rails and at the fence,
Fire glass reblend

Both on the bridge and at the station.
I hung up the stars of lanterns.

In the darkness the piles shone
Electro-eyed floors.
Look up and there's a sparkle
What a scattering here and there.
Can I not burst out with rejoicing?
When I am happy about his work.
And he's a big, broad-shouldered blue one
I walked far out of town,

Walked on bridges of iron lines |

And he lit the stars, the stars.

Alexey Sokolov.

From a radio poem.

Not a paper hoop,
The thunder of guns
Countries were torn apart in the seventeenth year.

_ On a pressed bed of feather beds and pillows

Good sleep
No one has.
Hundred-eyed face at the rally square.
Gray circle of soldiers' greatcoats.
Oralors!
Red threads
To the East
To the West
To the North
To the South!
On the dirty straw of boxcars
Messengers of unprecedented northern blizzards.
Calls of the October Gong
Na, Voetok =
To, West
To the South!

Projectors of foreign fields watered

Old Rus' is raining bloody rain.
Broke the evil 'game'
Soviet Russia.

Broke the steel ring'

Alone in the world.

Throws itself in the face of old Europe
`The Red Banner.
We shout stubbornly
The world has been dug up.

A persistent sower of grain again.
Old World Perekop
Worker's blood irrigated.

Thunderstorms,
Mint suites.
Every heart
Fiery light.

You are communists -
Warriors and poets!

_ Adensander Arkhangelsky.

8 V No. 1 (6)

"The Flying Dutchman".
R. Eideman.
From Latvian,

We were the first to fulfill our duty
And they threw down the captain barking,
And they went out to sea to fight to the death,
Proudly throwing out the banner.

to you
Yellow, black, white and brown
sailors,
to you
Loaders with gray from hunger and dust
persons
I carry itcoolies in the elevators of the world's
pitanov,

We clicked:; brothers! —
- Pirates, pirates!
They puffed
Red tongues
Guns of ships of world captains.
Because we were the ones in the depths
' of the old world they threw their grenade
irresistible “down with”!
Because we were the ones who said:
th comrades, brothers,
You see ships, warehouses, cities, ma-
1 sterskie, it’s yours, it’s yours, it’s yours.
Every beam, log and stone is
1` is strengthened by the fibers of your muscles
We fought. They fell in blood. Under-
didn't care. Solid. Steel.
Granite.
And when the fire of hurray howled over us,
1: tanny,
We knew: to sing,
‘You must hear. Our brothers are
shat.
We won.
They forced the ships to retreat to the horizon
old world.
‹Now they stand there like great
`kan-beasts licking their
paws torn in blood and waiting
our hour of agony.
r Brothers, where are you? Do you hear, bra-

Our ship suffered in battles and storms,

Our reserves have run out:

Today half a pound of flour with seaweed tra-
howl, tomorrow is quarter. Dusty
over time the rats don’t even find pi-
cabbage soup They are rushing © basements upward, to

the masts themselves.

They pile up and dance above their heads

people

Or,

Hanging your tails,

A crowd of evil visions - their eyes sparkle

zami:
yes.

Listen, listen to the singing of the rat >
What a good captain he was

There was flour and tasty lard,

There was enough warmth and space in the basements, _

Oh, the good old captain was!
This is how they sing, their eyes flashing angrily
zami.
Small but sharp as steel teeth

they gnaw at the bottom of the ship, rushing

achieve what you couldn't
make the guns of the captains of the old
peace.
The ship has a leak,
The ship is going down.
To the harbor!
Back!
So they shout, swinging above their heads
you sailors.
They strive to make you lower
banners and return to the city

ny port
To the harbor?
Who dared, who dared to say
is this a word?

Did this call resonate with anyone?
Didn't find it?

Then we are safe and sound.

Solid. Iron. Granite.

Translated by R. bi“.

-.®
>

ze

$

E

B

a

№1 (6)

FICTION LITERATURE. 9

about spring.

There are spring gullies on the pavement,
And withmoon hammer © hot
Beats...
Th light and shadow are bifurcated
Burns your face
A ray fragment...
Well, spring is such a force,
Za'atar and heat and fervor
Kneaded with a poker
And the dirt and snow were washed into the holes.
Like a rag stinging dryly
Granite is tight...
Well
Baba, passers-by thought,
Freckles on the elbows of the sleeves...
And she scratched them in the faces, -
In the shoulders, in the cowlicks
And let the sun shine.
But passers-by are calm
As if they were sleeping;
We crossed the rapid streams,
You can only hear the crunching under your feet,
Sun-sucked ice flakes.
Where the river is a thundering string
All the boiling is seething in the granites;
There is a factory, there’s a way to go there, -

To the engine room.

Where the windows are the blue light of the halls,

Overwritten,

The laundress hasn't washed for a long time,

Suddenly he pulls the lever,

And foot noises

They whispered at the door - a strike...
Then she became silent behind the façade
Only the skirt was beating on the windmill,
Gone...

And flattered me with a blue gaze
But the windows are strictly checked.

“The Socialist-Revolutionaries nodded to her from the corners...

The plant stood still for five minutes...
And the workers burned her in the heart,
In the lungs, in the liver, in the mouth.

’ ^ Suddenly shame stung my eyes;

y]
I

I settle down above the cabinet,
nuttily slapped the drayman in the back,
’ conscience kicked out

And the woman is very happy.

Roasting the pavement stone.
The day has melted and the fogs have filled
Solid blue. ,

At least they drank with a spindle saw.

The car smoked, gasoline fumes

Kudycha incessantly

To lovers at the gate

'The breath became dusty.

And crashed across the bridge...

Spring has lowered its starry apron;

Motor spinning trot

I'll immediately hit the woman

And knocked on the stars up high.

And a long, long time until dawn,

Milky dust swirled...

Every other day

Mentioned in newspapers:

Number 5 the car is missing.

Ulyana’s mother was upset about the driver,

She is wearing a sweater made of fragrant linen,

Elephant legs in son's boots...

And he,

He told the surprised Martians

What a golden wave

Crashed on the rocks of the revolution.

“Martians, move your engines down;

There's nothing to listen to half the night,

Earth is the best bugler,

She fed souls with the elements.”

And I would talk for a long time, shaking out the
__ rage;

Tossing out words,

Spring screams - “march to the ground”

Take the People's Commissar to the Council of People's Commissars."

Passers-by calmly

As if sleepingT; ,

Swift streams cross over,

You can only hear the crunching underfoot

Sun-sucked ice flakes.

Spring, factory, car

They rush;

Along the milky growth,

Through eternity stardust

At double speed.

Alexander Makarov.
10

BURN.

No. 1 (6)

Under the sound of wheels.

The sun breathes heat - it burns. You-
yoko, Andrey Ko is bathing in a haystack
styuk, and © next to him is Ganka. Hay-eve-
chewy, soft, fragrant. Both are resting
after work... Andrey’s cheeks are sunken,
eyebrows are narrow, black, arrow-shaped
running around.

He looks at Ganka and smiles.

And Ganka was all buried in the hay, only
the leg sticks out - bare to the knee.

The braids are disheveled - there is straw in the hair.

- You're no good - you're puffing -

- I’d like to see what it’s like in the workshop.
skoy worked...

- Why, you’ll just get covered in soot?
yes soot.

- What's in the soot?

Show me your hands...

Well, apparently right away.

What?

Nothing...

And why did you come to us?
The owner was shot, and the car
stopped... So I arrived.

The sun is burning with might and main. Caviar at Ganka's
large; skin covered with a thick tan.

- Let me go, don’t touch... Why am I...
were you? Look, the field is flat, far away
something, wherever you look, stretches to the sky.

- So?

- So go away from me wherever you want -
scratch...

Andrey looked in. On a gray tape
black spots are moving along the roads
The sides and tail are smoky.

‚ - Look, I’m thinking - there must be a sweetheart there
left... Is yours like that too?

- Asking to go to heaven...

Andrey looks at Ganka for a long time,
steely, & the pain stopped in the eyes.

- To heaven?.. and where do such people come from?

are they taking?
- 9-eh! You should have looked!

— The machine is knocking, the shafts are spinning, &
different patterns on paper, flowers
beautiful big ones, sometimes white, sometimes red,
figures, stripes... And not just one work -
eat... There are a lot of people - everything is as usual
denoma. So the hands flash, and so
flash. And good... Easy, like this
all at once... You don’t get tired like you do here... in
alone... |

Ganka thought...

- How wonderful you are! I don’t even understand you
wash right away...

She jumps up impulsively © place, &
the hay scatters in all directions. Bro
lets burn right intso Andrey and ©
jumps down screaming. Skirt hem only
flashed.

- Ganka, Ganka!

And Ganka is running along the road... yes already-
She's so light and you can't even see her legs because of
DUST.

“Mityukha decided to get married, & aunt
Matryona scolds... Liu-li, li-li-li-
is coming." Dmitry Kosoukhy in the middle of the street
he walks and his legs give way. At least
the sun is still very hot, and he © not-

covered head; holds a cap in his hand. s

Andrey wants to pass him aside
unnoticed. Doesn't like him. Suddenly drunk
New eyes stop on him.

- Stop!

Dmitry turns sharply and walks
quickly to Andrey.

- I'll tell you something.

Wants to walk in one direction, but his legs point
another.

And he gets angry and scolds someone. Then
Andrei reluctantly goes to meet him.

- Listen brother, ah, last night I Gun-
I saw Ku with Fedka. Wanted to hide
yes, I noticed them, my eyes are good
shi...
- Well, yes? }

Andrei shudders, yanks it off his shoulder
Cha Dmitry's hand.

2

Ha

№1 (6)

FICTION. 11

Dmitry was shaking, I almost
fell. Raeserdilea. at

-What are you doing? You're telling the truth, but
you're pushing...

- You're lying!

- Cross them! I walked along the fence,
shu—they whisper, they whisper. Look
to the side, and they snuck through the gate... ^

- Is this Fedka?

- He is, I tell you.

Andrey’s eyes suddenly became narrow,
hid behind the cheekbones.

- I told them: “Fedka! Ganka! And they
at least something... no goo-goo.

- Ah... ah!.. drawled Andrey. Head
went into the shoulders, and all the blood went to the heart
It poured out, it even became hard to breathe. And
teeth gnashed.

- Listen, you really are not kidding-
be quiet?..

He spoke quickly, in a whisper.

Holds Dmitry tightly for Kosovo
mouth and looks straight through, as if right through
wants to see.

-Are you kidding?

- Why joke?

And Dmitry goes all the way to Andrey,
puts her lips right in his face.

——I have a knife... a good one, not-
I've been sharpening it for a long time... As soon as you touch it,
bones... to the bone... But Fedka is not
wanders; he beats off all the girls. Here!..

Dmitry fumbles for a long time behind his belt,
takes out something from there, wrapped in
shake... |
- On... And then leave!

Andrey looks from under his brows...

Take it, take it!..what are you afraid of?..

It ached, it pinched... And it was burning brightly -
black dots began to fall out of the sun...
Millions. Dmitry is already walking along the
bora, walks slowly, staggering. S00b-
he struck and put the cap on his head.

“Where the devil took you, we would
got married at home”... .

Andrei, bent over and stealthily,
approaching the fence from the side of the yard and

_ looked through the crack. There are two black on the bench

figures. They pester you in your face and
eyes wet weed leaves. And you-
tear him down, bend him to the ground, you'll scare him away
rustling... And he endures. Bare sign-

`‘my, quiet; I can't make out the words...

Suddenly they fell silent.

They tear the silence with dull, abrupt la-
I eat dogs. Somewhere in the distance a pale blinking
red fire hanging in the dark,
and its long, sharp rays climb
in the eyes, then suddenly they jump back and do-
Xia short... short... Pushed out
forward lower jaw—bite angrily
shena lip. They look intensely into the crack
the eyes seem to be squinted, they even hurt. An-
Dray runs his finger along the edge of the knife.
Slowly, carefully, slightly, touching
ya... And a small itchy trembling test-*
crawls all over the body.

And the rustle and whisper of movements pierce
very persistently... And the blood hums - no
gives to listen; one, two, three, four...

“Bending over the fence and swinging-
poke in the side... And her?

And her: at the same time... ‚ Just a minute
only"...

Andrey slowly moves his finger along
the edge of the knife... And in the eyes there are green sparks -
new...

And suddenly it cuts sharply and piercingly -
silently a shrill, desperate whistle,
and echoes distinctly in the distance.

And then clearly, measuredly, as if eo-
everyone heard the sound of tram-ta-tam, tram-
ta-there... Andrei is all to the side -
given. r

"The train has arrived at the station." Melk-
a thought came, flashed and chased him -
tea behind the sound of wheels. And they are congested
drank, became frequent, jumped up and down...

“They knock like in a factory,” says
thought Andrey. - “Like this, like this... just-
a little faster... Like this 8-10 hours
owls in a row - shivered... To which Grigory
Nikitich, who works nearby... He too
nothing, but he’s kind of small, hu-
daytime; and the face is either pale or
yellow...looks straight."choose

1

‹

12 RORN.

No. 1 (6)

I remember it was like this. "Sabbath", Cree
cheat master. Andrey puts his coat aside
puts on his cap and pulls it over his forehead.
He turns around and wants to meet Grigory Ni-
Kitich to say goodbye... And Grigory Ni-
Kitich doesn’t see him—hurriedly urging
eats the pieces of bread left by Andrei
undernourished. He threw them on his
bench... Andrei's heart sank.
He knows: Nikitich has five guys.

- Grigory Nikitich!...

He shudders and looks in fear.
shitty, embarrassed.

- Grigory Nikitich, maybe you
Do you need some money?—Don’t be shy:
empty - I'll borrow it.

Grigory Nikitich mutters something un-

intelligible, doesn’t look you in the eye, but Andrey
squeezes several papers into his hand
zhek...
- What are you doing, Grigory Nikitich?
we work on one car, together it
we tremble, our hearts are in hers
we hide our hearts...

But never to ask
won't you drink?..

It's even a shame, you know
KITIch. ^.

Grigory Nikitich has tears in his eyes.
Andrey's soul is pleasant and joyful.
He shakes his little hand © long-
with crooked fingers and ho-
he still wishes he could fit it in somehow,
squeeze

- Eh, Grigory Nikitich, if only I had
there was a lot of money - that's when...

The image turned pale, walked away and
remained good, warm... Andrey on
the sky looks, in the pale flickering of the ku-
sings his thoughts, suddenly born and
all reaches out towards them...

Behind the fence the figures turn black and whisper
huddle, clinging to each other. And sho-
the sweat is all in bliss and there is a quiet pain from it.

An-
drey. He looks at the couple for a minute.

And then, swinging, with the force of a stitch,
throws the knife far to the side. On the same
moment, bending over the fence, he screamed
read excitedly.

- Ganka! Tomorrow I'm going to the city,
work! Goodbye!

Grigory Ni-

A. Zapolski.

Mavra's departure.

Story.

(From a cycle to a new one).

G.

Young came out, the spring evening
lie. \Shaked slightly dark brown
curls, smiling - yes, with a smile
and froze: I saw the beautiful dawn...
lush, ruddy, in blue, with a shimmer
mi, sundress and purple ribbon in kou
viletena. Otal evening - it's dawn,
eyes downcast, eyelashes lowered...
was silent.

I would quit. to each other, it's hot
snuggle, but it’s scary: they’ll see, glory
skinny will do.

The dawn looked at the cute-pretty-
wow, with just one little star-eye

wow, it’s even brighter than before—
flashed... and again silence... Standing...
Admiring...

Only in the evening sometimes the wind sighs -
[com- so joyfully, a little bit, -a.dawn-
When they tremble and hesitate, they are silent again...
know, both of them have heart skipping beats,
barks...

I didn’t notice and it was evening, I didn’t notice
dawn, like an old woman from somewhere - night you -
crawled and was already very close to them
hobbled...

They both realized, but it was too late: they saw
la old... frowned... Shame...
whoa!
№1 (6)

FICTION. | 13

The dawn rushed - wanted to hurry
hide, yes, as luck would have it, I got hooked
for, cloud, purple ribbon—and ri:
got out of the braid... Where is it... Not up to the ribbon..
I wish I could hide quickly...

The night frowned even more and
I was reading something under my breath. Branitea
know... At least the evening is okay!

He walked up, smiling, with a walker, to
cloud, took the ribbon, admired © mi-
nootka-yes sniff_-as if it never happened...

Looks young!..

It's long past midnight,
the roosters have long been _aivay Mav-
Ra is still awake... in pain.

I sat all evening, she was at the WINDOW, about
I thought, and even now I can’t think of it
from the Head...

Mavra lies on the bed, scattered
I was so upset... and my heart is so compressed, so compressed...
toils...

I would get up and fly somewhere,
no, the wings are tied... - it’s still smoking,
The old mother-in-law is still alive...

And Mavra rushes about, and she remembers
a life lived, hopeless...

They married her off early, to a hateful, un-
beloved - what can you do, the will of the birth-
TV is like this, you can’t go against it...

He was an enviable husband: wealthy—
and he has no family - his mother is old and
just...

If you live, you fall in love,
will get used to it...

And the Maiden's share disappeared,

Mavra began to live married. She, yes
husband... yes, this third one, grumpy,
stingy...

Parents - what - sold © hands and
ok...

In an amicable way, they say; everything is fineusual...

But they don’t ask the girl what she needs...
what - they don't care about that...

And life stretched out like a thread...

The child was born - I was delighted
Mavra, but not for long: the baby died,

they said,

® was no more..

Out of the blue, the war began
on. The village howled...

Reduce the number of guys and men ma-
too lazy... And then again and again.

The soldiers appeared...

And she began to cherish the Moor’s thoughts. Duma
secret, deep... Perhaps it will come true...

And it came true, they took away the hateful...
and she is a soldier... But there is little joy -
what happened: he grumbles more than ever, yes
mother-in-law reproaches... Eh, little share!..

And then the most amazing thing happened:
My husband went missing during the war. Log out
getting married again is not possible. And leave my father-in-law
nowhere. And it’s scary: what if “he”
comes back.

A revolution broke out. - There,
somewhere, in the city, far away: but the village is still
still moved and tossed around...

And in the fall everything changed completely -
elk...

Something floated from the city
new, unprecedented... The council has become... City-
Chinese began to arrive: young, eta-
ry... winnowing...

They smoked and disturbed the village of ma-
tires are horseless. Wonder and fear
they drove... Then nothing, we got used to it...
took a closer look... nothing...

The visitors made speeches about what kind of people
I haven’t heard... Everything has become new...

Mavra was also drawn to something new. Pulled
stubbornly, persistently... And I didn’t know yet
Mavra, why is she drawn so, and where... Feel-
only what is in “this”,
some truth, some great power,
but I didn’t know which one...

And when I arrived in the village, and temporarily
settling, young worker Matvey Bu-
she also felt “something”
Vala... His eyes are kind and shining;
naked - so affectionate and convincing.
And the strength just flows out of him, just like that

Already the second motherfuckers have shouted out,
already dawn looked in with a smile
the upper room, like, they say, what, they say, here, and Mav-.
oh, he's not sleeping. Apparently this one, noodle, is not sleeping either.

14 HORN.

№1 (6)

wailing, creaking. He turns around and sighs
Mavra! - fidgets, responds from the stove
grunting and that. Will tremble, hide
Mavra—she too will be silent. And the dawn withoveem
he’s already climbing out the window, puffing himself up...

P.

Just a fried pancake - the sun
crawled out from behind the forest -_Mavra is already on the no-
gah. ‹

The oven, like a fiery cauldron, is blazing.
The work is in full swing... Hands are agile
rushing about, jumping... Just a thought—
thought - far, far away... Eh, I wish I could leave.
I would leave forever and not return... A
the sun's tongue teases the crack,
sweats: “You won’t leave, they say... no
you'll leave!.. And the knife falls from Mav's hands -
ry, and my legs are getting weak, and I want
shout something, moan, cry...

“There will be guests, tea,” mumbles the fresh-
the blood is old—and inquisitively, jealously
treats Mavra.

- It’s a shame that a knife is worthless, it’s not good
!--- Mavra snapped, flashed - and
slammed the door. - 0-0... indeed
it smelled of trouble... And the old woman sighed.
She sighed heavily, with a wheeze, as if from
the years you lived wanted her breasts
break - and couldn’t...

And there are guests in the yard.

Maryanka is a city dweller... So cheerful,
lively... oh food twirl-
ki - sparkling..

drainage gate - -pea alarmed -

...Stopped..

- And I’m coming to you Mavra...
fox...

Maryanka left her childhood for the
family, to a factory, and grew up there. And those-
Now I came to the village, the second one
lives for a hundred years, leads the Council... Sta-
Ricky and they are surprised.

- Oh, yes Maryanka. - She knows everything, everything
grave

And about the girls, the young ones, there’s no need to talk...
there's nothing to talk about but about Maryanka...

-and whispered-

From the very first days Maryan became friends
ka with Mavra - I'm getting the inside scoop
I found out, and then it went and went...

“Ma-avra,” the old woman creaked in
hut Ma-a-vra...

The Moor got angry.

- Uh... filthy... there is no end to it! and
she leaned even lower towards Maryanka...

They whispered some more, quickly...

- So until the evening - and Maryan was gone -
ki, she died. And Mavra froze, as if
stone..

The old woman crawled out onto the porch, groaning,
Complains about something... Coughed... Dog
grumbled, squealed... I remembered Mav-

Sh.

The spring day is tired, tired...

They’re barely dragging their feet... They’re stumbling... Bah... yeah’

No way I bled it on the road. Look for-
was pouring with scarlet. But still cheerful, joyful:
winks, nothing, ‘they say, it will pass...Mavra also took care of the housework. B
fiddling around with something in the closet - preoccupied,
serious...Knits some knots
on the sly... On the road or something,
afraid?.. The wind-veined mother-in-law, the
lost...

I smelled something bad...

- Mavra, what about Mavra?!

“What,” she responded.

- What are you doing?

- Nothing, just about the housework...
my heart itself sank... It sank and
at the old one. Oh, bad luck...

- Mavra!

- Silent...

- Mavra!..

Mavra spilled out of the closet, veta-
la in front of the old one - angry, elastic...

- Well, what? Here I am!

Something moved and clicked in
breasts..

I saw the light, creaking, I realized - no
Moors, no...

- Oh, how about that? and God? & what people
will they say?

IRI UCHI

And both of them. iga a

8
|
$

s
at

No._

K.
"
<
1
>=

`

No. 1 (6)

SS O ai

FICTION. 15

She muttered, got into trouble...

“It’s stuffy for me here, old lady!” Shower-
but!.. she just said... and left..

The closet creaked, the door creaked
in the entryway, the gate echoed...

She grumbled under the canopy... So without
all sorts of...

Either cold or cold... And
just...

The old one remained... alone, useless...

The day has already gone far... disappeared...

in a hurry.
A gray, muddy haze poured into the hut
zero...

Flooded all the corners, poured it into everyone...

And there is nothing..

You can only hear something muttering,
sniffles... And then just a little, barely...

And suddenly there was a crackling sound on the street,
kalo... Something iron, strongly pro-
was going on, - called with a whistle - eirene
all over the village...

And the village took pity, hid on-
guarded...

Yuri 'Dobrynin.

1920-21.

Zhmerinka, Moscow.

Insurrection.

Staging by B. Yurshchev for tonal-plastic

performances based on the poem

E. Verhaerna.
ACT: Took off.
They tossed it up.

People who commit (rebels). Udarizi.
The first to know AH 0-0-0-0-0. Performed as organized
Second. : Uh-uh-uh. new sound noises on music
Presenter. Ah-ah-ah-ah. vocal melody.
The first one to call back. We got up, we got up,
The other one is with him. We judge, we judge.
Gretius is with them. We are made of steel.
Crazy.

The woman is frantic.
Reading requiem rebels.
Scout.

Another scout.

Overture.

Until the curtain rises in music grow
threats. The music seethes with anger. Above mu-
before the curtain goes up there are words
in choral performance.

Chorus.

We got up, got up.

We judge, we judge.

Cut the womb of centuries with a sword,

We are made of steel.

We won't regret it

We won't

We won't

No matter...

Anger flies on the wings of fires,

Hands have a death grip on the enemy's throat...

We will regret it.

THE CURTAIN IS COMING.

There are two people standing on the stage on a hill
from the group of “those who knew before” and look
behind the stage to the city.

First.

Here they are.
The skeletons of centuries stood up,
They gallop through the streets with flames of revenge,
Breaking the teeth of centuries.
Trampled tomorrow, and a hundred years and two hundred,
The patience of the gods is crushed...
Yes.
Revenge, joy, screams of the pile
We missed a second today.
Time has rolled down the destroyed gangplank
A gasp of a hurricane across the chest...

Second
Yes.

There is no more time...
16 HORN. No. 15

First.

Hah.

The dials are broken on tall towers,
Their even light does not shine on the squares

As if the eyes of the capital had closed their eyelashes...
There is no more time.

Second,
Yes.

There is no more time
For intoxicated, cruel hearts,
For the crowd carrying out judgment...

The music is growing.
approaching crowd.
The choir is woven into the music.

You can hear it in the distance

Chorus.

Bloody melt fire throws into the sky
The rampages of rage are biting the world.
Today we came out of the wormholes,
On the mountains of corpses we demand ours....
Revenge beats the steps,

The alarm bell rings for the squares.

They're flying..

They're running...

They kill...

They're marking...

9-9-9-ee-y.

Wrap it up

Drive it.

Here-ah-ah.

9-5e-9-9 e.

Voice behind the scenes.
Heads up in a celebration of riot.

One runs in.

Street with a fast flow of steps
Crying, hands and heads
Rolling in a furious noise...

The crowd pours in. It splashes across

stage. The exes on stage laugh.

All.
Forward.
In a moment, crazy.
But together.
Towards accomplishments.
Towards hopes.
For revenge.
The street is terrible, the street is red,
Bossy,

In the lush gold of sunset,

In the bright glow that colored the firmament,
All death

Rising to the alarm,
All death...

Like wild dreams come to life,
She stood up in lights and frantic screams. ..

Group "calling"x back" jumps up

to the tower and pointing in horror at the city.

First. .

Look... there... there...
Someone's heads are on spikes...

Second.
Like flowers on the stems...

There is fear in the crowd. Grouped into one group

nets of the scene. They send out scouts.

Who.

Who's there?
What.

People. Which.
For what,

How.

From “calling back” to the crowd.

First.

Braglia. Away from the delirium of rage
The night was confused by the anger of the heads.

Second.

You see, he’s writhing in convulsive joy.
First.

Brothers, back.
Third.

Triumphant sin strikes at random.
Miss, no.

Second.

Death devours the bloody nodes.
Third.

The city is ready to beg for mercy.

First.

Back. Back. The hand of the killer is tired.
Be afraid. The time has not yet come. . -

One soars, followed by another “noble:

sewed before.”
№1 (6)

FICTION. 17

First. } | ZN
Lie.

There is no more time
For us who carry out judgment.

Another.

Great rage © fiery face
With a joyful cry

With blood raging in my veins
She stood on a pile of stones.

First.
She can do everything. She can do everything.
Just one moment
Will give her more
Than whole centuries of gravity
Yes. Great rage arose on a pile of stones.

The crowd is getting excited.
Everything is up.
In a moment that swept away like an alloy
Hatred, force, consciousness of rights...

A frantic woman jumps up
ztsina and shouts over the heads of those standing
aeolie: I

Crowd (enthused).

Women.

Let's unwind our crazy braids.

Our nights are hot these days

Pour with drink and blood... beat.
Sing... drink... burn your eyes.
The city is burning in a drunken dance

We scattered laughter with hot sparks
Yes. Such a bubbling caress

Never saw a night at Versailles...

At her last words they run in
lanky scouts..

First.
There
By area
'The stones are painted red with corpses...

Second.

The rebels are fighting.
Rebels in battle.
The rebels bend and wait...

First.

Go ahead over the corpses
Whirlwind to battle °
Blood spattered, covered in blood. ..

Horn No. 1 (6)

Nesuteya vvuki \calling hymn’ re-
station. The crowd evens out. Upstairs
“Leader” and crushing the waves of the anthem with words,
throws out to the crowd:

Presenter.

Everyday life is beat...

Peoplecelebrate the bloody holiday,
People pass by and are red and drunk,
People walk over dead bodies.

Let the soldiers not know who is right.
Let the drums knock, grind,

But your fingers will get tired of touching the triggers...
We will follow death

Through horror, under the shadow of cheerful banners...
Go ahead.

To the beginning of new times.

To victories.

The crowd picks up and gets ready to go.

Crowd.
To victories, to victories.

Where. Where.
In the cemetery of life. To the joy of death.

||th call. called
Well. Go. Go. But believe.
Souls will drown in blood.
The fire will get tired of burning.

Nth call. called

Enraged by murder, the sword will break
The knife gets tired of killing.

`

Presenter.
Forward. Not afraid to kill,
Killing to create, to renew.
With an insatiable nature to thrust
Teeth into the holy target
On a great day of madness
Yarn. spin for a joyful life
Or a victim of the construction jaws...

Crowd.

Forward without fear of killing.
Killing to create, to renew.

1st vote.
Bridges and buildings are burning...

|th voice. a
Facades made of blood against the backdrop of the night...
18 HORN.

No. 1 (6)

Voices.

Reflections burn in the depths of the channels
To the very bottom with a receding pillar
Huge shadows of large bell towers.
They lie like barriers on the bright earth.

Women Goal.

The fire over the houses is cheerful and free
Throws handfuls of sparks in the darkness.

Male Goal. |

And black smoke twists mightily
They fly beside themselves towards the bloody clouds.

There's a fight behind the scenes. They are listening.

All. at
Chu. Volley.

The crowd rises. In music there is a march.

Crowd. (Leaving.)

Death automatically takes aim
'The dry crack of guns being discharged
Falls into bloody puddles

Piles of bizarrely twisted bodies...
Lead resolves stubborn disputes...
Before death, gazes pierce into the sky.

They leave. There's a fight behind the scenes... The fight is mu-
musical picture accompanied

choir...
Chorus.

Colliding with fire under the arch of darkness
The night of the alarm breaks the copper
The consciousness of truth cuts minds
The night of the uprising is a stigma for centuries.

A madman runs onto the stage.

He.
Ha ha ha ha.
The reflection of the fires on everyone's faces.
Throws a monstrous laugh.
Ha ha ha ha.

Runs away.

Two “those who knew” run out after him
earlier" and jumping onto the tower, looking behind
scene for the fight. For a second inswift-
In the midst of chaos, a crowd bursts in and
give, whoever to the ground.

Crowd.
Chu. Volley.

They jump up again and rush into
fight. 'Two who knew before' remain
on the tower, watching. Musical battle.

Chorus. (Sings.)

Through the ridges of centuries cut by suffering
Today we will carry the world in our arms

Hey.

Where.

What cages will hold us

Our anger has been accumulated for centuries.

First on stage. And.

Yeah.

Here is a crowd already in front of the entrances of the gloomy city halls
Holding the whole city under a heavy thumb,
Squeezing impulses towards a golden dream. ..

Second.
They swing and break heavy doors
The bolts are cracking and the locks are flying,
They give chests from the wombs
Account books, accounts, papers...
First.

Their torches lick with their tongues
And they remember the black past
Only black smoke zigzags...

1st vote. — ee
Red flags fluttered over the balconies.

Nth voice. #
Someone threw out his arms while falling
In empty space...

1st knew before. r
Willfulness and violence are everywhere...

A madman comes out and stares
at one point, whispers and laughs madly
noisy and silent.

He.

Christ in the twilight of churches
Torn from a crucifix by someone
Hanging on the last nail
Extending my arms powerlessly. ..

Fir trees spill into puddles | s) |
Someone broke the peaceful glass of the icons, $
The floor is whitened

Snowed in communion
And quite a few roads were laid along them
Traces of sacrilegious feet...

=),

No. 1 (6)

FICTION.

19

Notices two people on her

stage.

Crazy (throwing ® at him).

What. Christ was torn from the cross

What Christ. Powerless. Hill.
ZKizn! a spear was thrust into the ribs,
The people of the basements and graves have been resurrected...
They lit up the sky without fear of sin

And they go. And they go. And they go. Ha ha ha

Laughing, arms outstretched, he runs away. Fight
for. at a price verse. Music, quiet, funeral,
but with a tinge of anxiety, a march plays. You-
they carry the dead “leader”. They put it down. You-
goes upstairs “a man reading the requi-
I eat" the rebels.

He.

We won this night
But a string of such nights awaits us.

We triumph on a fresh grave
We are creators. We are killers. ^

The “leader” is carried during the passage,
the choir sings the words spoken “person. cheat
requiem".Person cheat requiem.

Friends. This is not the time to kneel.
Those killed in song will be remembered for centuries
We will perform prayers with sword and fire
A hand will swing in prayer...
Prayer at the bodies - calls for revenge,
Burn. Kill in order to live.
Brave climb over corpses to joy
A bright tomorrow will melt the knives. ..

Sounds sparkle in the funeral march
fight song. The crowd is ready for new battles.

1st digit earlier.

Killing, create, renew or die
Open or break your hands on the door,
We are sparks in the light of the rising dawn

And no matter what fate judges

Through the hosts of centuries we are drawn
A hasty, gasping unknown force.
Forward.

crowd,
Go ahead.

The crowd throws the last one very high
“Forward” and breaks off at the top. Music with
the edges of ragged voices fly up
incredible height, for a moment
holds there and suddenly seems to collapse
into the abyss in huge boulders. into her
pipe sigs are stuck in one after another
alarm signals. The flames of the fires are growing.
The whole stage is in red. Music for an instant
the veil subsides and the red cuts high
naked because of the scene.

Voice.

Blood spilled at sunrise tomorrow
Needs to be remembered...

A pause of complete silence,

Music bursts in. Red bursts
light from the spread © different con-
rays of white and red. The crowd
walks into himself, builds up, goes into white
beam from the city side.

Crowd.

Score. Score. Flood in song
And the sky
And flames.
And moans.
Forward.
Let the world crack in two
Our
- Forward.
Will remember forever
Forever. Forward.—Forward.

CURTAIN. ^

2*
Cultural issues.

The modern moment and tasks of proletkult.

To the readers - workers.

We are resuming the publication of “Gorn”, which cannot be
rubbing on extremely heavy material
the conditions in which Prolet is now located -
cult.

_But... the moment we are experiencing is so

serious, the tasks facing the Soviet
Russian Russia, and from here to every
thinking proletarian, so complex and
responsible for remaining silent at the moment
it would be criminal.

The cash journal should and will be full
a strong reflection of the tasks set for oneself
Proletkult, methods of their resolution and
direct practiceki, °in which these
methods are growing and crystallizing
in various forms of our work: scientific
methodological, in the field of art
in all its forms, etc. d.

What exactly are the tasks?
Proletkult in general and the magazine in particular
‚nosti?

First of all, you need to answer the proletarian
masses on a number of scientific, eco-
nomic, political, ideological,
Let everyone figure out the most complicated things
interweaving of a number of socially political phenomena
tical and economic life of the country.

What does it mean to give the opportunity to figure it out?

We believe that to communicate in inappropriate tones
fallibility a number of information from various sources
branches of economics and politics, or combinations
a nation of facts that are interesting in themselves,
covering this or that issue, have not yet

means to help understand, and sometimes rather
help confused.

What information, what facts, in what
form, combination, sequence they
given—that is the center of the question. Will they indicate
they’ to the reader that in America there are 2.500.000
cars, and throughout Europe only
1,500,000, and they will limit themselves to this, causing
reader's respectful amazement at
American technology and nothing more. Yes-
do they show him the advantages of the Taylor system,
enormously increasing productivity
labor and will push his thought towards rationality
analysis of one’s work without developing the
millet to its social significance for
world economy, or deploy it in
the entire latitude with all horizons and peri-
prospects both positive and negative
negative order...

You might know something very interesting
about the economic life of America, its technical
Nick, agriculture, you can know something
What can you also know about the Taylor system?
There is still a lot and... not knowing anything.

Not knowing, because just “knowing” is not enough
facts, figures, etc., you need to be able to control
use them, learn to compare them, connect
put into a single whole, so that from individual
stones to build a building, acquire a single
a holistic view of all modern events
ness.

And for this it is necessary, firstly, to
approach questions scientifically and, secondly,

d

2%

77№1 (6) QUESTIONS

+ ыы

5

CULTURES. 21

methodologically correct to build a scientific

new approach to them,

Only in this way can one learn how to
Think scientifically and generally, and only at the same time
provided every fact, even small sometimes,
every insignificant figure can steel
not an empty, meaningless sound, but
a useful and valuable part of the whole.

The task of Proletkult in the field of ideology
gy: science, art in all their breadth
comes down to the fact that the proletariat, as
class, mastered science, art, science
heavy weapons for the construction of a new 6©0-
socialist society and in the field of ideological
logy became the dominant class, class-

catfish; whose ideology society lives by. .

Bourgeois science, which has reached a separate
knowledge in various branches of a very high level,
‘due to the terrible fragmentation and specialization
implementation, gets entangled, in the end, in
their own networks.

The bourgeois economy has in its ranks
das large, talented, without flattery pre-
given to capitalism by economists. But eco-
It does not have nomist-technicians. And in our
era, era of electrification, discovery
intra-atomic energy, in the era of radioactive
However, it is impossible for an economist not to be a technician.

And at the same time, a technician-engineer cannot
don't be an economist. The first one has no knowledge
technology will not have a basis for its wide-ranging
communications, the second will not have the breadth of coverage
that of the world economy, without which modern
the engineer is doomed to move back from the depths
side revolution, developing economy
cultural life of the whole world.

And in our era, every proletarian
you need to raise your head from the machine, look
push closely and carefully behind the gate
of your factory to find your place in
great construction of a new life.

For, despite all the viciousness of the pack
Poincare, despite all the intricacies
magnates of Western European capital,
Soviet Russia day after day, successively
truly, stubbornly breaking the blockade wall.
The economy of the whole world imperatively demands
The inclusions of Soviet Russia, as well as

legal, political value into the system
world economy. RosThis is a country of raw materials.
Europe is half-destroyed by war, it needs
was recovering. Raw materials must be taken from
Russia. Russia needs to be given the means to pro-
production, equipment, machines, because without this
raw materials cannot be extracted from Russia. Firstly,
because donating raw materials to Western Europeans
capitalists because of their far from being
We do not intend red eyes, and secondly,
because, in order to extract ore from the depths of Siberia,
for example, you need to break into them, and in order
take out the ore, you need to build an iron plant
the road. Following capitalism Zan.
Europe inevitably needs to develop
production technology, in an enemy country
not where (oh horror!..) the Bolsheviks rule,
workers and peasants the same, and this strengthens
their power, the overthrow of which capitalism
so thirsty. What can Western-Euro-
European countries (Soviet Russia, which
country, what and how much? From which of the Euro-
European countries we will be in the greatest
dependence and vice versa: which countries are nanbo-
are still in need of our raw materials and will be in
depending on nae? These are questions without
the answer to which is more or less thinking
the proletarian can no longer live.

Can't because he has to be
conscious participant in the economic
and political life of Soviet Russia.

Having expanded his horizons, the proletarian does not
will already be locked into a narrow circle of inte-
resources of a workshop or a separate production
he will know the place of his production
water supply in the national economic system,
country and its importance for the latter,
will truly become the owner and builder of his
his own, on his blood and muscles
built farm.

In the use of their labor Russian
the proletariat, which cost more than
nushka than high technology and improved
new ways of applying labor, must
know all the latest data about new forms
the maximum use of labor so that, using
them in practice, we have to increase our qua-
lification.
22 GORN.

№1 (6)

We are not fans of the Toylor system, as
system aimed exclusively at
increase in labor output, we believe,
that the Taylor system is onlyparticular
from the enormous ‘task of a scientific organization
labor.’ The proletarian needs to be able to scientifically
approach the organization and use
his own and his fellow workers
yes, learn to examine and evaluate
it not only from the point of view of individual
noah, but also from the point of view of state-
economic, combining the strictest `economic
mission of labor energy with its maximum
productivity.

Because it will be clear to comrades
this point of view on work, to the extent that it is easy for them
will also approach the organization of production
the state in which they work, and to everything
the national economy of Soviet Russia is not
from the point of view of its own bell-
neither, but from the point of view of class interests
the proletariat as a whole. to

So, to highlight to our readers
(and we want and will have such in the person
our fellow proletarians) economic
life on a global scale, drawn
tell them as clearly as possible
picture of the most complex plexus of mutual halls
dependence and interaction of different countries
among themselves, evaluate the place, role and significance
The power of the economy of Soviet Russia in the world
in the economy—this is our task in the field
economy.

But all this must be given in such a way that
comrades learned scientifically and creatively,
Marxist generalizing, to think, because only
but this will give them materialistic
method is a powerful tool of knowledge.

Arouse deep interest in issues
labor, its organization and methods of use
calling, familiarize with all the conquests
science in this area, without being too enthusiastic
doctrines, the so-called Taylorism give
possibility of applying scientific data
in our practice - this is the second task.

Further, despite the technical backwardness
the collapse of Soviet Russia and the enormous destruction
changes in the technology of our industry, non-

/

despite this and mainly because of this,
we need to familiarize ourselves in detail and widely -
with the achievements of technical thought and practice
tics in the West, evaluate for yourself fully and
the importance of electrifying our ho-
economy, think about using high
technology from us too.

XXcentury gave a number of huge conquests
knowledge in the field of technology. Behind the war and re-
we had no time to follow the revolution,
It is not enough to point out such discoveries,
as intra-atomic energy, a powerful source
nick of energy replacing coal and fuel
I drink in general, radio music that opens
the broadest prospects in the field of use
calling 'radio for practical purposes,
to say: in our time and with our
tasks of being technically ignorant
no longer possible.

Development of economics and production technology
ties in order to be completed in
every given moment of the process, from the outside
the one who implements both private,
and general, material production
or organizational tasks require known
equality between the task and the performer
lem. A blacksmith shackling a cart according to the right
the old-fashioned way cannot become
steam hammer, without rising, like a technical
both physically and psychologically from the craft
skill, to large-scale industrial scale.

Well-known and quite high level
technical and psychological culture
the industrial worker has the necessary
prerequisite for technical progress of large scale
industry. :

This is how it should be in production technology.
government, its organization and the economy in general.

This “should be” sounds like a category
ical imperative.

But is it possible that this “should be” and if
perhaps, then on what scale and at what
under what conditions?

The technical ought is conceived by us before

achievable through vocational education 3

tion. Is this enough? Here you need
answer one very important question, &
namely: what will the mutual development be like in its development?

©,

№1 (6) QUESTIONS

CULTURES.

Re s b-dR. ^ G x VT 2zh x

`

23

and the relationship between the engineer and the worker will be
whether the worker is everywhere, from top to bottom,
from small practical tasks to organizational
niziation of a part or the whole production
th process of feeling and being aware of oneself,
as a force only and exclusively fulfilled
telskaya

In capitalism it was and remains precisely
yes. The technical supremacy of the engineer over
worker, there is an artist above himo-
replenishing and reinforcing the ka- system
pitalistic exploitation is a fact. Capi-
Talism expropriated from the worker’ not only
to part of the product of his labor, in the form of
added value, but also the possibility of technical
progress of each individual
working beyond the limit, I provide
sharing capital with the highest at the moment
rate of surplus value.

The worker was a machine and nothing more. Qua-
its transformation followed technology,
reaching out to her, and not the other way around.

And the production process itself does not cause
there is nothing in the worker except the consciousness that
both today and tomorrow “his skin will be
beat." Feel like a master and creator
It's difficult under these conditions.

Bourgeois-capitalist ideology
formulated this position of the worker as
the position of the “living labor force”, the forces at
presence of a reserve army of capital—unemployed

botnyh, force easily restored by bot-

the simple replacement of retiring units.
In the early stages of machine capitalism
we had the so-called “lud-movement”
dits" who preached the destruction of ma-
tires, like batters, earnings and bread
worker who worked manually and machine-
which became relatively superfluous when introduced
research machine.

In our time, the proletarians no longer destroy
cars are running around, but the psychological Luddite
the quality in them has not yet been eliminated. _

Indifferent attitude towards the pro-
production on a national scale
and at best narrow, parochial, proprietary
bell-like attitude towards “your factory”,

“to your plant” there is a direct product of drilling

zhuaz ideology, ideology of the “master”
his corner, exposed to alakas from
competitors' sides. This is what we call
psychological Ludditeism. Unconscious-
blind destruction of the whole in the name of the near
which is understandable, directly everyday
influencing part. \

Illustrations of this in the practice of revolution
tion is more than enough. One factory
has more fuel than needed, but not
has cotton, the other back, and both stand,
for giving part of what is superfluous to another “is not
economically” from the point of view of this government =
Denia. This wouldlo we have. Uncoupling of cargo,
following to a specific address for
acute - public needs, in the interests
local needs of the area, etc.,
ITD

What's the matter here?

'Namely, that it is politically high
consciousness of the Russian proletariat is combined
communicates in it with a very low economic
production-production consciousness. In this
the Russian proletarian represents the direct
the opposite of his English then-
I'm cooking. th

There is a high production consciousness
combined with low political consciousness
and decreased political activity,
us on the contrary.

What follows from this?

Firstly, the logically inevitable power
the quality of technocracy in its development is directly
proportional to the height of the production equipment
status, secondly, subordinate position
proletarian masses in relation to the system
distribution as benefits for personal
consumption and social income. And
it will be so until the proletariat, as
class and each proletarian individually,
does not recognize himself as the main creative force
loy in the construction of the economy in all its
breadth, and the owner is not what he pro-
is harassing today in “his” factory, but in total
economy as a whole.

This realization is a process of many, many
years, the process is prohibitively difficult; ours, ra-
bot, our thoughts, our practice on the per-

``
24 BURN.

№1 (6)

their stages will be pygmies, infants
Chinese steps along this path, club-footed,
uncertain, but it does not follow from this that
that it is too early to pose and solve this problem.
It must be delivered and delivered
practically, because the era demands it, the era
great prospects in technology and economics
on a global scale.

One of the means to promote growth
this consciousness, very powerful means
det art in all its forms.

Here it is more than likely to hear skepticism.
tic and malicious question: “well, what kind of
wearing can have art to higher-
assigned tasks."

This is where scientific questions are rooted,
economics, technology, sociology, and art
for many this is still an “adjective” in the sense of
Nimania Mitrofanushkand, like the door at the entrance
a sense of science, economics, etc.

Holy, pure, sublime art and
world trade exchange. Wild!

But without a fiery artistic passion
thinking, sober, with a cold heart
trim to the question, not having grief in the heart, but
“here on earth” deeper into the soil of action
`telnosti. The proletarian's awareness of himself as
the main driving force of social
production and all related
economic relations should be

live in a single firmly forged goal
ileology of the proletariat as a class.
The class instinct that moves the pro-

Tara masses on the barricades in the fight against. ka-
nourishment, must in the process of development and deepening
deepening the revolution to the smallest depths
everyday life be developed into a deep
‚ class consciousness based on creative
covering the entire mechanism of socialist
public, as in its transitional
melting stage, ideally achieved
Research Institute

This can only be achieved by great
new ideological work of the proletariat,
in which art will play a huge role
role.

What is the scale and plan of this ideological
good work. People who have not yet

forced ourselves to think about these questions
themselves, will meet everything that follows with skepticism.
sunny smile. So be it.

We want to push, awaken thought, and
do not deserve a commendable review, no matter what
whatever it was “Princess Maria Alekseevna”
for his modesty in setting goals for himself
dacha

Puka: involving the proletarian masses in
circle of scientific thinking and interest, directed
introducing them to the correct methodological
way of mastering values. science, popular
rization of its most complex constructions, ex-
living in the systemic integrity of the separated
from each other scientific disciplines established
the introduction of practical communication between science and technology
Coy, getting rid of the abstraction of science from
practical life. We protest a lot
against pure art, but very little
we are talking about dear to the hearts of the bourgeois
scientists and their farewell to “pure science.”

A fundamental change in scientific methods by
lines for constructing them, starting not from
book formula, but from living lifeknow where
this formula is often refracted under
unexpected for an armchair scientist
angle. The experience of workers' faculties is still very small.
shoy, suggests that the perception of
letarian staff of workers' faculties, say, mathematics
mathematics comes from their direct practice
ki “from the machine and machine”, which puts foreign
where is the teacher from the book and the office
in a very difficult situation. He turns out
"illiterate" regarding practical
application of his armchair-thought-out forms
mule s

This gap was not noticed before, but
it has long been clumsily, rudely defined
among the proletarian masses, skeptically
units relevant to science (there are some that
and not a little) with the formula: “nature pre-
overcomes,” i.e. practice is everything and
science is a theory, it’s so-so, a second thing
order.

This understanding is based on the mass
jokes in the proletarian environment about techniques,
engineers who saved before the old right-
by a worker, about an Englishman or a German,

k.

"Mr.

№1 (6)

CULTURAL ISSUES.

25

whom the Russian “jumped” in some matter
sky original master.

A number of guild legends are built on this,
for example, Tula gunsmiths, Ural
sessional workers, etc. Combination
this “nature” with science, in other words, established
renewing their close unity and bringing
strictly ‘scientific methods of thinking in pro-
letarian mass - this is the task that
should be allowed in much more
on a wider scale than just vocational technical
ical education or blinding multi-
geh 'Taylorism', which is often substituted
concept of scientific organization of labor. And
vocational education, and Taylorism,
and even the scientific organization of labor will be included
here, as parts,

And then in relation to art the thought
suggests the following.

Here are a few lines characterizing
winners of '71, who were shot in
30,000 defenders of the Commune in Paris:.

“Oh, honest, persistent, courageous bur-

`joisie, still existing in France.

How much did she give during these twenty years of activity?
efficient officers, energetic and talented
distinguished diplomats, excellent professors,
trues artists. Sometimes I have to
hear: “How tenacious these people are. He's pro-
must exist under such conditions
when the other one is there, his place would disappear from the face
land." It must be admitted that if he is still
exists these twenty years, then this, chiefly
in a positive way, thanks to the efforts of the young bourgeois
zhuisie, which agreed to everything in order to
to be able to the country. She 'tolerated when low
“Caliphs for an hour” condemned in the name of freedom
the most expensive (beliefs, when rotten
politicians launched a general beating
Relative law as a tool for achieving
power, and erected their lies
insignificant persons to the highest places.
She introduced the introduction of universal suffrage
body law, the most monstrous and non-
fairest of all forms of tyranny, so
as force of numbers is the crudest force
la, who has neither courage nor
Lantom. The young bourgeoisie agreed to everything

m

took everything to be able to use
fulfill your duty. We owe everything to her:
because our soldiers are marching everywhere,
that foreign powers will continue to
please treat us with respect that our highest
neck education is progressing that our
arts and literature continue to bear witness
talk about the 'national genius'.

Where is this from? Political pamphlet, speech
in parliament or at an anniversary banquet
bourgeoisie? No. This is just an excerpt from
a modest work of art, from
Paul's novel (Bourget's "The Apprentice", p. 6, in
modest edition of the Universal Library
ki. Holy art must, of course,
above and beyond politics!

But this is Paul Bourget, the artist of Burger
Juisie. But, my God, what screams I raised
American bourgeoisie after, say, you-
the publication of the novel “The Jungle” by Upton Syn-
clergyman, who revealed the “foundations” of dominion,
meat kings in Chicago. bio@ Psef }out,
pov Isef Yo! 1).

There is only one conclusion from here for all those who
still cackling about “holy”, “pure” art-
art", art as magic (Balmont),
it's time, to the cabinet of curiosities, for the edification of posterity:
“Children, look at him” and don’t do stupid things.
fast in general, and artistically - critically
skiesin particular. That's how it is in politics. art-
it directly and directly serves her.
What about technology? Let's take the same literature.
Novels in the past by Jules Verne, now by Wales
Well, especially the last one, isn't it?
far from technology, from the vocabulary of technical
progress, these broad technical
"utopias" now covered by such open-minded
ties, like intra-alomic energy, but
it was only yesterday that it was the greatest utopia.
This is an apology for technology through the arts, and
an apology for science, because there is no technology without science
and it cannot be.

They may object, from the word it won’t happen,
you can talk a lot artistically about

*) What is allowed to Jupiter is not allowed
bull. What is possible for the strong is impossible by giving
little ones.
26 GORN. {

№1 (6)

technology, but this does not mean that art

life will be productively and creatively restored
fed the proletarian masses with action. Lite-
rature is still a distraction from practice,
view from the outside, and not organically arising
or related to the practice of technology and eco-
nomics - action.

But we are talking about tn a ra-
why does technology and art have power over him?
peak.

Let's turn from “talking” to “doing”.

Fine arts:

Who can talk seriously now
that the development of ‘fine arts’
will follow the line of cramming museums into
maidens of great and small masters ‘real-
present and future. Only bison Belovezh-
skaya Pushcha art and no one else.

Art in production, burying pro-
between the artist and the worker, one
the essence of artistic ideas and practical
its implementation not in the artist's studio on
71-17 floors, and in the production itself, on
factory through a machine, small machine, chemical
reaction, through the hands of a worker - artist,
master-creator, not a mechanical performer
the body of someone else’s idea, this is the historical trend
tion of modernity.

And the point here is not what is necessary from the point of view
from the point of view of production division of labor
debtor and worker, but in the fact that at the core
separation of their functions, artist and worker
what, lies the principles of capitalism, "Fu14e ef
pirega" - "by dividing conquer."

All materialinstallation, everyday life should
through production to come to the home of ra-
Bogogo, in a public hall, on the street, on
mass holiday. Instead of purely external
decorations, 'artistic' rub-
shek on stone boxes, in architecture
achieving a deeply conscious architectural
tour-artistic erased the buildings, in
which every psychological movement
a tired or joyful person is met
would be positively “satisfying”
external environment, not a blank wall,
‚ negatively influencing things or their com-
binations. And for this you need only one thing,

An artist in his work must
do not proceed from your educated capi-
Talism "I", & from the one for whom it is yours
rit—what gap in life should be filled
his creativity, which from human needs
it will satisfy the mind and labor, where
will direct the movement of the human creator.

A new artist is needed for this, because
the old are irrevocably condemned, with the exception of
by the number of units, on, extinction. This is cruel
history dictates, and it will do its job,
no matter how much they oppose it
producers of old art,

All this is directly and directly related -
combines art with social production
ity and thereby puts in unconditional
the need to educate the proletarian mass
sy in this direction. And she can't
don't be raised that way. Trying to defend
push the robber away from
historically 'inevitable' communication process
art with production means pouring on
water yourself and want to stay dry. We
We do not at all think that through our own efforts
“we will create” this process, far from it, we
We only take into account the historically outlined
share the trend and build all its actions
along the line of assistance as much as possible

rapid development of this process in Yu.

practical life. And here, as elsewhere
We are the “obstetricians of history.”

Music:

Queen, art. The great ‘elusive one’
its unexpected mysterious depths,
not amenable to “explanation”, but only
felt, music is one of the “purest”
arts, far from earthly vulgarity and
dirt, and therefore mostmore influential and
most cherished by its creators. Music
and production, well, could there be anything...
be more absurd in this juxtaposition.
The hellish roar of the boiler room and the most tender nu-
Tchaikovsky's ances.

Ridiculous! Wild!

And at the same time, the rhythm in our time is
thoroughly analyzed during the labor process,
as one of its most important elements. We

We are already taking a scientific approach to the “rhythmization of work.” `

8

2

No. 1 (6)

CULTURAL ISSUES.

27

And the rhythm, it seems, is music more than
emlet. Every musician knows this. Remains-
Xia meter, sound organization. We have long heard
shawls ominous singing of high-voltage currents
tensions in transformalores, but not converted

paid attention to this, they only put
the emblem of death and wrote: “be careful”
"deadly" near this majestic
strength.

And now?

Now we know Theremin's discovery "Ra-
dio music."

Hence, electro music is almost entirely
possible.

Contrast this with the idea of electrification
and it is not difficult to understand that “virgin pure-
those queens will taste music from the grimy
the threat is very serious and practically
imminent danger.

Bringing music into the production process
tva is a matter of the near future.

This will not be an introduction to the temple of metal
modern symphony orchestra. Himself
production process with inexhaustible 6b0-
represents a wealth of sound combinations
is an untuned instrument, invisible
given and not even thought of until now
pore range. This question on the page
We will dedicate quite a bit to this magazine
attention.

Theater:

Before this art form, 'form
synthetic, where the mechanical
literature, music, and fine arts
artistic arts, and the creativity of the actor,
awaited in forging, truly, commu-
stic ideology to play exclusively
powerful and broad role. Firstly, the Bur-
juisie in the centuries of its rule, created
the cult of the hero, the creator of bourgeois forms. This is-
many have bowed their knees to the heroism of the bourgeoisie
sincere artistic prayers have been offered
and is exalted by the bourgeois theater. Prole-
Tary, who accomplished the greatest thing in the world
revolution, did not realizestill quite half
but all the greatness and heroism of the enslaved
masses in all ages and in all spaces
globe, who did a great job for their

his class liberation. Hero cult
ism of class, must be reflected in the great
images of the proletarian struggle. These images
will not be individual. Parisian Com-
Muna, it’s not just Valyan, Varlen and them
comrades, and the entire proletariat of Paris 1871
year, and our admiration for him, like
class, and not before individuals,
whom he raised above himself on his shoulders
chakhs that made the naliema most prominent
historical gaze. A quick look at the history
riya of the proletariat movement, notes to us
mighty forward steps across the fields
stories are steady, like planetary movement
life To cultivate inescapable love in the heart
love history, heroism, creative power
his native class is the task of the proletarian
theater
But this cult of class should not exist.
passively contemplative. The class is now de-
barks his next historic step, and
this step should forge a new link and
an unbroken chain of aspirations of the proletariat,
to socialism. Therefore, actively Creative
the forces of the proletariat must find in the proletariat
Tara Theater its artistic manifestation
tion. Under the creative forces of the proletariat
we understand not only the proletarian artist
debtor who directly creates his
class Theatre, our understanding is broader.
These are the creative forces of the one who reveals,
and the one who provides material for identifying
nia, i.e. the whole class as a whole, in its dynamics
mike 'struggle - creativity. Here fly-
ry must see himself as a creator, not
tinted with pink slobbery water
romanticism, & in true power and strength
yours. What science and technology gives him;
social struggle—all this must find
artistic confirmation in the theater.
In other words, the ideology of the proletariat in its
in general should become the basis of creativity.
proletarian theater. It will be diverse
zen, vitally wide, this theater. Span-
nothing human is alien to ry.
Theater that awakens thought, theater that is creative
moving forwarded, theater of dynamics” in itself
and dynamic in its influence on the co-creator
28 GORN.

Oh

g No. 41 8)

viewer, this is how we imagine a new pro-
Letarian theater

He must teach the proletarian to understand
that he is a great creative force, and to give
him the strength to counteract the influence on
class, disintegrating and disintegrating indi-
visualistic ideology of bourgeois-ka-
pitalistic world.

All the questions we noted above, we
We think of putting ourselves through. "Gorn"
for deep consideration in the audience on-
our fellow readers. We don't think
about the immediate solution of many of the intentions
important questions, but... we know well that
every living, fresh thought, every
would be a small step along the path of creative

achievements will be a weapon for the proletariat,
replenishing his ideological arsenal.

They say - we do it, we check the Nazis
thoughts based on experience, experience tested on, criticism
the masses of our comrades, we call them to this
criticism.

And we are confident that our first steps
on the path of building a proletarian class
owl culture cannot fail to succeed
home

Our “Gorn” is still small, ‘not too big yet
the fans are working well, not yet
We have enough coal, but... who increases
coal mining in the Donetsk basin?

--&
V. Pletnev.

Three types of crops.

Types of crops.

What is culture? Initial knowledge
meaning of the word—cultivation of the land—into the distance
neishem acquired a broader content
tion, and now culture is understood as the whole
the totality of human living conditions
sky society.

This concept includes production,
technology, types of cooperation and distribution
leniya, forms of community life, politics, and law,
life and family, etc. Subsequently, -060-
especially in the conditions of bourgeois society—
the concept of culture was narrowed to the limit
catching only the spiritual side of life, that's all
the rest was allocated to the culture section
material.

The content remains, however, still
very significant and includes
religion, science, morality and art, - words
in general, everything that organizes our ideas
06 “truth”, “goodness” and “beauty”.

Enoughclearly remember the colossal bo-
wealth in a number of centuries of created values
material and spiritual, constant change
their for® combinations are extremely slow-
noah in the early stages and intensely

urgent 'of our 'time, to feel
developed the vital necessity of dis-
to take on all this chaos of phenomena,
try to reduce this diversity to a small
to a large number of basic types.

In this multicolored flow of cultures -
ny currents, sometimes merging it together,
sometimes ‘crossing’, sometimes mutually rotating
waiting with each other, it's not hard to catch
three main streams, chronologically related
connected with each other, like the past with the present
present and future.

One of the cultures arose and developed
in the distant past, the second in lush color
blossomed in the conditions of bourgeois society
culture—modern culture for us—and trepidation
Everything is basically and most importantly... in the future.

This division is clearly arbitrary: much of
of the “past” culture seeped into the “modern”
exchange", & in the latter they mature and develop-
The embryos of the “future” are emerging.

Contours of each of the cultures separately
will become more distinct if you connect
creativity, flowering and spread of that
or another culture with social groups

Loka No. Anna For

I
A."

K 3

and ahh

<

GO "g"

to
58

№1 (6) QUESTIONS

CULTURES. 29

pamy, and the classes that created them, with the general
conditions of production, mainly
in which they arose.

The first is the oldest culture, by all
its roots go literally into the ground,
she grew up and strengthened in the conditions of development
developing agriculture.

Its real organizers are the feudal lords and
the clergy, and before them the leaders of the patriarchal
ny communities—were the creators and bearers
most ancient culture.

To build it, they consciously and unconsciously
consciously used the model and template
nom, who gave and imposed on them ho-
economic - economic and political
environment. at

And since in public
life of this [time the most characteristic
the moment was a chain of mutual dependence
people according to the type of “power and subordination”, i.e.
so much of this whole cultra (and others close
adjacent to it) can be called
authoritarian culture.

The second type of culture is a powerful flourishing

which coincides with capitalism - incon-
th is indirectly connected with the development of 00-

exchange. Having a medieval reference point
city (if we mean mainly
history of Western Europe) exchange relations
grow and strengthen, take over ever larger
territories in their sphere of influence, put
the beginning of capitalism, at first commercial, for-
those industrial, financial.

The city is proudly isolated from the elements of wood
Viennese agricultural life and was drawn into
the whirlpool of its frantically rapid life
nor the slowly stagnant village; he's on-
saturates it with the spirit of his economic rights -
yes, a heightened sense of private
lvennoeti, permeates her thoroughly with a thirst
milk profit and breaks together the integrity
patriarchal-primitive organization
natural way of life. If direct
and indirect impact of the city on the village

``,
And contribute to the peeling of the separate “I”

&:

From “we” from the world of a semi-impersonal community, -
then this process, however, is relatively medical
lazy Not so in the cities: here in the conditions

economic independence of single
ki-commodity producer, strengthening exchange-
economy is an economic process, and
then spiritual isolation, opposition
selfishness to others quickly gets its way
completion. :

This is the second culture associated
no longer with the countryside and agriculture, but with the cities
home, industry, with the bourgeoisie, class
catfish, bringing tools of labor into production.

And since this society is characterized by
thorny is economically self-
telny and opposed to everything else-
no individuality, to the extent that all this
culture can be called "culture
individualistic."

But inextricably with the development of capitalism
in the depths of society, a new class is growing—
the proletariat, which contributes only to production
to your workforce.

This class is forced within the limits of capital
lism to oppose itself to both the bourgeoisie and
land ownership, fight hard for, your
economic, polytic interests. B
this fight is taking shape step by check
the foundations of his independent class pro-
Letarian Culture, ‘different and anti-
standing for two others, also class cul-
tours If for more than a hundred
anniversary, the proletariat launched a huge
creatively unifying and revolutionary
but offensive activity predominantly
especially in the sphere of ‘economic and political
cultural (trade unions, political
parties, three Internationals), then in

° areas of spiritual dissociation of oneself from others
many hostile classes - more done
quite a bit. The weak embryos of its cult-
tours are maturing in the depths of society, this is still
green shoots making their way through the crowd
I feel cultures are authoritarian-individualistic
skikh, young culture.

Everywhere - in its struggle in all its many-
various manifestations, in production, in
in his creativity, in fulfilling his non-
mediocre historical mission to be
organizer of a socialist society,
on the basis of a systematic, global organization

CHI

—
30 BURN.

№1 (6)

tions of production”—the proletariat comes forward,
as an independent class, as a united
team.

Friendly cooperation is

defining moment of his entire life, and `

the culture that he creates in the process
process of struggle and creativity, perhaps
called a collective labor culture.

Authoritarianism, individualism, collectivism
tivism—these are the three main features of the three
crops

Landowning class, bourgeoisie, pro-
letariat—real ‘organizers and bearers’
calves of three different cultures.

Let's take a closer look at the most important 0co-
the benefits of each of them.

Feudal culture.

The main feature of feudalism is patri-
archal culture is authoritarian
ness. This concept reflects the fact
opposition of the “highest” to the “lowest”, pro-
but it is entirely the idea of “power” and “sub-
repairs." This was the real action
activity: “lower people” (in the overwhelming
the majority of the peasantry) were in
vassal dependence on, lord, on-
the latter in the same measure and in the same way
sort of dependentt from a larger overlord,
the last one is from an even larger one, etc.
up to the largest - the king, the monarch.
The same multi-link chain of interdependence
Bridges according to the type of subordination and power go

and along the line of the church hierarchy, starting _

e some minor representative of the state
under the church of a run-down village
feudal Middle Ages, ending
somewhere far away in the foggy distance in all power -
in Rome, where he lived and from where he led
this whole colossal organization, - can-
dense, spiritual order - the pope,
head of the Roman Catholic Church.

If the artist wanted in one image -
to give an idea of this culture,
identify her sense of life and well-being,
then maybe he could depict multi-tiered
new building filled with people with eyes on

intensely directed upward in relation to
to those sitting above and occasionally disdainful
literally, half-contemptuously translating the verb-
for those who are lower.

Equally characteristic of this culture
is that the icon, as a symbol of dependence
from the highest divine authority,
is the best decoration and sacred
object in the house, as well as what is usually
The main forms of politeness were addresses
such as “gracious sovereign” and
correspondingly self-deprecating “Your xs.
humble servant."

Authoritarianism, as a real fact of action, 4
real life forms a model, according to
which molds the entire culture as a whole. That's it,
absolutely everything, both in perception and in
forging seems to double; under any
visible, felt reality authoritarian
new consciousness seeks and finds a special ac-
tive essence; the power that commands
a strong will, whose commands one cannot help but obey.
STAY UP.

This "doubling" in distinctly high
artistic forms forever heal-
moose in ancient religion and mythology. All
then, the whole world around us, every phenomenon
tion seemed to be saturated with life. To people
it seemed that in front of them were not just trees =
and streams, rivers and mountains, the depths of the seas
and the bowels of the earth, the solar disk or the bottomless
New sky: no, that's not all. Behind it all
withsometimes wise, sometimes formidable, sometimes tenderly
harsh or cruel reality, embodied
Naya in the galaxy of gods and goddesses. This is where the prank comes in
pouring dryads, nymphs, oceanids “oscillation-
bodies of the earth." Poseidon, with his menacing thunder
tooth, then causing, fierce storms, then
calming the sea elements, here and
The radiant god of the Sun - Helios, and the ruler
gloomy underground people—Hades or
Pluto. There are many of them, different gods and goddesses,

and their number is growing with the development of economic
new life: it was enough to strengthen the re-
place within the feudal community, or time-‹>
return to military trade operations, which-
if folk art would record the new
Highlights of your practice in the images of God

fa > et

E O E AIIS OZONE IN

.

* natural - “not of this world”,

No. 1 (6)

CULTURAL ISSUES.

31

blacksmith, - Hephaestus, the cruel god of WAR
Mars! and Hermes, this patron of large
roads, merchants, robbers and thieves.
Subsequently, the motley world of antiquity
polytheism (polytheism), loses its beauty
religion becomes grayer, more uniform,
replaced by monotheism (monotheism), ver-
-the supreme ruler of the Universe, in whose hands-
kah the fate of people and nations.
Dualism (duality) of worldview
extends further to whole
* groups of phenomena: they are distinguished as something related
° completely 0s0oe, does not fit into

* usual framework, not subject to general

patterns, supernatural phenomena
new, wonderful, mysterious. These phenomena
resist the normal processes of Nature
“everything well known”, “ordinary”, “according to
understandable", self-evident", their
allocated to a special category of “incomprehensible”,
"mysterious"; “mysterious”, “wonderful”,
often “foreboding”, “dangerous”

and menacing phenomena. :
The unexpected appearance of comets, solar

eclipses, terrible epidemics, special cases

* nervous diseases are isolated by humans
feudal culture, as something out of the ordinary
coming out.

+ Just as not all people are the same
kovy (“black” and “white bone”), and so
tions fall into natural and super-

whose
the meaning is clear, and the meaning canno need to open up
given not by “mere mortals”, but only
the sages, the most worthy, the ‘fathers of the church...
Thus, authoritarianism is deeply
permeating interpersonal relationships
‘nia, overflows its own banks
_and serves as a template for understanding the introduced
cial phenomena. If the world is built according to
‘the pattern of power and subordination, as it seems
for a person of an authoritarian culture, then where
really think about rebuilding it. Type "cul-
tours" - or more precisely, ideology, which is

’ model of the social model, it turns out

„ in the future, a tool for strengthening its
_ primary base. s

E

In addition to versatile authoritarianism
possible in this culture. note a number of other
some additional signs.

“Rock” weighs heavily on this culture.
immobility." Frozen life forms
the surprisingly slow pace of its development

‘tia, due to the level of its technology, co-

gave people the illusion of something absolutely
permanent, durable, forever indestructible.

No wonder the indestructible monuments of this
cultures are the Egyptian pyramids,
temples and cathedrals that required for their
construction sometimes took centuries, against
which seem to be powerless and omnipotent
time.

If any changes occurred
over the course of one or more
knees - they were so insignificant,
that they almost didn’t reach consciousness; those
most there were no favorable conditions
viy for the emergence and strengthening of ideas
development or progress. And if later
century of this culture here, then there, then
in one area, then in another, something arose
or new, and this was repeated more and more often
and more persistent due to growth and development
exchange ties, revealing to people
we new, sometimes unexpected horizons,
unusual, unusual, then the people of this
cultures tried to get off good-naturedly
skeptical saying: “nothing is new
under the moon." It was an attempt to turn
at least in words - something new in a long time ago
familiar. :

Much later, when the “new” became
persistently make your way in life,
when it tried in its own way,by - unusual-
nomu, look at the world, interpret in
to another, contrary to generally accepted religious

dogma, to rebel against the ossified

foundations of feudalism, in its cruel
situations that hampered the development of manufacturers
of the emerging bourgeoisie—then
the “old” bristled menacingly, raised its front
Chatku, fire and sword took up arms against
new ideas and new people. “So it was, so
will be" is the usual slogan of every obsolete

L
g ov

№1 (6)

culture, in the name of self-preservation, b0-
fighting against new life trends
tions: for the “Past”—already obsolete—pro-
tive of “Present” and “Future”.
Spontaneous conservatism, dislike for everything
to the new, routine and pattern are so characteristic
thorny for authoritarian cultures in general - to
‚at the moment of their decline, they turn into malicious
intolerant, cruel and conscious con-
servatism, which opposes everything
progress.
If it were necessary to connect this culture
round with some verb in which
its main content was embodied,
then it is hardly possible to find a more suitable
better word than “preserve”, indestructible
we can protect the old.
Truly this is the “culture of the Great For-
standing."

The culture is individualistic.

Completely different signs should be observed.
characterize the following crops, bourgeois
multi-individualistic. Loner, - in-
The dividend is the core of this culture. Time
the growing barter economy has raised the eco-
nomic value of a single producer
body: peasant, artisan, merchant,
factory owner, industrialist,
emphasized and deepened the meaning of private property
property.

Personality—“I”—has become the focus of eco-
nomic interests, the node in which the re-
economic threads are baptized. But the knot
this one, although gifted with feelings, however, is not

is aware and does not want to be aware of dependence

its “being” from the social whole. Him
it seems that he is independent, independent,
by itself; if on the market with its spontaneous
supply and demand, price fluctuations
he has to reckon with the harsh economic
miraculous necessity, adjusted
to an alien force, tOh he perceives it as
an annoying hindrance, like evil, with which reluctantly
the heart has to be reconciled. This formality
the dependence of a single enterprise -
great delusion, but a delusion

° concealing the dormant forces of private ini-

initiatives that give impetus to the economic
creativity, increases in solitary—commodity-
manufacturer - the spirit of offensive, striving
refusal to leave unlucky competitors in
behind. Full of initiative and drive, pro-

‚destroyed by an aggressive mood,

catcher of the “bourgeois world”, economically
having grown stronger, through the mouth of its ideologists, creative
by its scientists and artists, political
kovs and leaders, proclaims his truth;
in its own way generalizes inter-human
relations in formulations of this kind,
as “one against all”, “woe to the vanquished”,
“Man is a wolf to man.”

At the center of all culture—free from
the shackles of the past personality. She proclaims
formal equality, liberty and fraternity, and
really, in fact, is fighting against everyone,

carries “not peace, but a sword,” and comradely
cooperation, and economic enslavement

nie, exploitation and competition. Easy
connect this culture with one word, the most
expresses it more precisely: best
here use the verb “take”. Take
snatch for yourself, was not considered © by others,
These are the techniques and ideals of individualism
chesky culture. For a person such a cultural
tours, the tragedy of ending up in a camp is not im-
SHCHIKH.

The individualism of this culture is noted in
literature! special highlighting of the hero and
idealizing his struggle against the masses, crowds
py, backward environment (usual plot of dramas)

in painting the development of portraiture, and in music
language by strengthening the lyrical principle.

In the person of their best, noblest

representatives such as Friedrich Nietzsche,

painfully (sensitively taken. to heart
the fate of culture, with all the power of authentic
of pathos, who took up arms against her upbringing
expectations - even people like him, in their ideas
alakh and constructions did not go further than
the ideal of a “superman”, a dream and a dream, a wise
th Zarathustra.

Elementary bifurcation into organizational
ditchand performers, characteristic of auto-
ritarian cultures, due to the complexity

th

at

4

yy

ab

}

}

>

!

+ Bitelskaya economic
° continents, rapaciously taking over the centuries -
with our accumulated values,

‘states:
_ old States and a number of other smaller ones, in comparison
nies with which the Great Roman Empire—

No. 1 (6) CULTURAL ISSUES, 33
the evolving structure of society, in the future the profits of workers all over the world, without
does not go into specialization. differences of race and color, latitude and longitude, from

Any activity requires special attention from everywhere, from all corners of the earth in which
cooking and in-depth work: to be spread beneficial influence
To be a “specialist” in your field, you need a concentrated “culture.”
ity, even some separation from the whole. When the interests of capital require it,
the person of fragmented experience loses. draw canals, dissect continents,
The whole connection with the collective, if not completely, connects the oceans, breaks through the granite of the mountains
then, in any case, she has weakened significantly - tunnels are opened to speed up communication
says: “behind the trees” - specialties in-input current and electromagnetic waves. Gemi
people of this culture cease to see life becoming more and more fast and intense
“forest”—the collective, its work and experience. People are married. This culture is always in a hurry, not
begin to misunderstand each other, goblin, truly “the culture of the Great Movement”
They say, as it were, in different languages, veekrezheniya,” “our god is run.” Every minute
they are telling an ancient myth. o_Vaviloisk-pathway- on the account. In large cities, modern

they steal. as if in different languages gvoskren-
there is an ancient myth about the Babylonian layer-creator -
viii, when general creativity slowed down,

Expanding exchange ties break
stagnation, immobility feudal-auto-
ritarian 'forms of life. The farther, the
penetrates deeper and more fully into life—Di-
namika. Onwards and forwards, tirelessly
and stops. Trading capital expands
horizon of the world. He discovers America
is looking for the shortest routes to India, organizing
conducts deep reconnaissance in little researchresearched
regions, pulls into the orbit of its grap-
whole politicians

he steadily
and consistently pushes the feudal de-

`jealousy under the yoke of serfdom. Capi-

Tal will organize in the future. world
Germany, England and the United States

dwarf Capitalist powers are everywhere
`“spread the nets of their exploitation; until
_ world war they are trying to resolve peacefully

shawl constantly emerging conflicts
and reconcile irreconcilable differences, and

_Who divide the world into “farms of influence” and
`tirelessly on a global scale they plucked out-

$31 Create surplus value wherever it is

perhaps.
Here our own proletariat was missing-
Chen: then involved in the production process,

Bugle No. 1 (6)

sti everywhere in squares and streets, wherever
look at the clock. It is all saturated with aggravated
with a strong sense of time and intense
using each of its segments and instantly
Venya. “Be brief”, “time is money”.
The best style is the telegram style. Strict
time and life schedule; non-stop
fast production process, measured and precise
in a factory, office, scientific laboratory.

Contrary to the humorous poem
Heinrich Heine about “who invented time”
we can safely assume that he “discovered time”,
it was not invented by a monk who listened alone
Whose cell squeaked mice and watched the fuss
them in the corner. Time is precious, in this climate
culture people are in a hurry to live and feel
they are in a hurry.

Although this culture spreads throughout
to the world the spirit of efficiency, perseverance,
adaptability, breaks foundations, breaks with, con-
servatism, progressive, but still in
mostly historically deeply limited
economic and spiritual individualism.
The latter is inextricably linked © by common
conditions of capitalist society, with
its anarchy of production, private
ity and the resulting exil-
atation and merciless, irreconcilable class-
owl fight.

Proletarian culture.

In the depths of capitalism, however, odious
temporarily the possibilities of the New Culture.
3
34

RON)

№1 (6)

Dispersed productive forces, in 0b-
spread evenlysown throughout the territory
rhetoric of feudal agricultural life, with
development of calitalism form in cities
real clusters of guns and people in ma-
in factories first, & then in factories
and factories.

The latter are the cradle of the new
class, class, hired workers, participating
working in production only for their workers
by force.

In this cradle the in-
industrial proletariat—real wear-
tel and creator of a new proletarian culture.

How is it different from previous cultures?
Where are the similarities and differences? What's her
special signs?

The first distinctive feature of this
culture is a consciously positive
approach to work.

In the early stages of this work culture
will have to be educated and reinforced especially
in groups that had previously carried out organi-
‚ constrictor functions, but in the future work
the ancient principle enters the flesh and blood of this
culture, penetrates, as it were, into its sphere
subconscious.

The element of labor will naturally appear
existing factor of existence, its indisputable
a prerequisite, and it will be impossible not to work,
it was impossible not to breathe, not to love, not to-
go to the Beautiful.

Along with the labor nature of this
culture is an integral additional
its sign is the beginning of the universal,
comradely cooperation, people-culture
work tour, free from delusions
and remnants of the past that delay
further growth of life...

For her, the starting point is fun
this many-sided “we”, and not the gloomy lonely
some “I”, a powerful collective of the universal, working
of ancient humanity, amicably, in concert,
organizing his fight against the elements of Pri-
childbirth “There is strength in unity.” Real basis
The catfish of this culture is a worldwide co-
operation of all human productive forces
of eternity.

This culture is in its most appropriate
form with maximum performance
uses all material resources
The earth, its natural resources, without being
connected in setting and solving one’s problems
dachas with numerous restrictions ito-
ric order, class privilege-
mi, the narrowness of national or stateshock-
ny framework. The principle of maximum pro-
performance will be determined by the ways
organization of cooperation; most powerful
scientific generalizations will be the initial accurate
when building a general economic system
stavva,—the norms of scientific expediency
various points will be determined,
related to the implementation of the plan.

The size of the capabilities, the mass of production
physical forces, material, human and
spiritual will correspond to the scope of pro-
production tasks

In the literary works of the greats
artists' imagination usually does not go beyond,
limits of large construction works, gran
odious sometimes. These are the engineers
Faust's plans, McAlla's projects
on the hero of the novel, “The Tunnel” by Kellerman or
engineer Manny in Bogdanov's novel, that
same name. These tasks, however, are partial:
cutting swamps, constructing tunnels and canals.
Setting tasks in the conditions of the proletarian
culture in essence and grander in nature.”
capture, fuller, brighter and most importantly more holistic:
the task of radically transforming the earth
ball, tasks to transform it into
support base of the immensely rich, powerful
and a happy all-human Collective.

This is a culture of Big Challenges and Achievements
Grooms.

This great Commonwealth of great men
the eternal masses are not depersonalized by personal
on the contrary, it raises it to the heights of
gross height.

Here we are not talking about a herd, but a living collection -
tive, where each unit contributes its own tone
into the general symphony of labor and creativity, their
lines and strokes into a multicolored picture
Life. In this culture, a person is a loner,
maybe - maybe he will feel tragic

= №1 (6)

QUESTIONS-CULTURE. 35

bypassed by Fate and Nature, if not
sumest - not “take”, as before, but “give”, something
or a team for which there will be no pain
greater punishment than the refusal of the collective to restore
take advantage of his creative achievements,
when he feels outside the team.
This culture is highly harmonious
personality is determined primarily by the fact that
creates the most important prerequisites for macro-
the most appropriate useuse of ka-
waiting for individual labor force.
The first serious efforts in this direction were
2 “new developments” are already emerging under calitalism:
scientific choice of professions (psychotechnics) in
*® to the greatest extent guaranteeing both pro-
labor productivity and high performance
the ability to do what you love, to which you have
both internal attraction and natural dado-
vaniya. The teaching will unfold in magnificent colors
9b improving the quality of the workforce -
eugenics (good gender) and the doctrine of ways
increasing the duration of the term, its validity
actions (work on “rejuvenation”).

In the conditions of a new culture with social
ism of this kind, research as going on
towards the best aspirations of people, they will find
real soil for its growth.

But no matter how completely it is carried out, the guarantee
monization of personality, full specialization

at least should not and cannot be eliminated
Nena: the character of e6 will change in a peculiar way
applications. It is not difficult to provide in a single

‚\ team formation of a number of unique
different groups—along the lines of various
interests and functions, groupings, however,

° Not turning into closed castes, with
free contours, with easy access to
its limits. The first furrows that laid the me-
waiting for people at the dawn of an authoritarian system,

Later they turned into a force of history.
` the course of things in impassable passages

graze “It’s easier for a camel to go through a needle

new ear”, than for the proletarian to end up in a
dah to the bourgeoisie or the Balraku-peasant
turn into a landowner.
Will authoritarianism be eliminated, will it remain
Is specialization valid, as it
overcome the abyss?

E

“
and

Authoritarianism and its associated
unquestioning obedience is already on our
eyes in many areas of life is replaced
competence, advice and guidance
people who know the matter; order - what
in the past I had to obey blindly,
without reasoning, is replaced by norms of purpose
imagery. B

Specialization, perhaps, no less deep
later than now, will find its corrective in
increasing the average level of a person in popu-
maximum harmonization of various aspects
his "I", intensifiedthose common aspects
human psyche that will help anyone
it is easier, more complete and deeper for you to understand each other
friend.

There will be no chasms separating people
filled up: they will be thrown through
light bridges, and people will cross freely
walk from shore to shore, participating in the community
general creativity, then in the role of organizers,
then as performers depending
on the degree of skill and preparation for this
or some other matter.

Colossal spiritual treasures,
accumulated over a number of millennia and again and again
newly created in the process of creativity, `
will receive such formulations, will be in such
tones are transformed, so that their assimilation is
seems to be a relatively much easier job
scrap than now, they will not———burden
and suppress the human psyche, will give
scope for creative activity, there will not be
cluttered with an abundance of concrete maleria-
la, often poorly systematized,
sometimes internally contradictory and almost
always scattered, unsoldered unity
properties of the approach.

Reorganization of sciences from an angle
collective labor, their large ‹ system
matization at the first stages, perhaps,
will figure prominently in the big picture
life.

Transforms in the same direction
art.

His collective labor origin
tion, meaning and purpose as a tool
organizations of the collective and individual

3*
36 p: No.

„

(6)

love, will become a clearly recognized principle
CINOM.

In colors and sounds, marble and metal,
word and stage action it is not only
will organize hesychika, increase its activity
ity, but also often in their constructions
anticipates the distant future, new shadows
dents of life, still too weak to
real, concrete and fully realized -
in reality.

When resistance to moribund life
more significantly than its young tendencies
tions, then creativity proceeds in roundabout ways
tami, embodied in a dream and dream, flight
and fantasy, and then in the form of artistic
of a real work - a prototype of a real one
reality.

With an individualistic culture in common
is a sign of her painshoy progressive-
speed, speed and perseverance.

It poses a number of colossal tasks, challenges,

sometimes, for many ‘years or centuries, glances-
moving forward—with greater prospects in
future. But this pathos of the “future” does not
barks this culture convulsively nervous, b0-
painfully impressive; this culture
bottomlessly rich in strength and potential,
plans and prospects all in mighty
striving into the distance and into the future, but at the same time
at the same time the culture is maximally saturated
of the living life of modern times, cultural
tour of great impulses and at the same time
deeply focused culture, cold
perseverance and fiery enthusiasm, ‘orga
completely alien to stagnation, including movement
life only as a component element, cult-
tour of great self-control and restrain-
centers “Culture of Great Peace”.

Perhaps the prospects for such a culture
are fascinating, but isn’t this a free fantasy?
Zia, shouldn't we treat this as
“golden dream”, about which one can only dream
zit? Is this true?

The proletarian, armed with knowledge of the law,
new movements of human society report-
clearly formulated in Marxism, knows

0b historical inevitability is realized
tions in the future of socialism.

However, now after everything that has happened
experienced by humanity over the last decade
anniversary, the timing of its implementation, the extreme
decreased by tea.

Listen to what's going on now,
Globe. Awakened by the unheard
catastrophe world war world pro-
the letariat is experiencing a real revolution
in your self-awareness. He felt—and
the further you go, the more aggravated it will be—its
tragic loneliness in this world is complete

imperious dominance of the calital, which does not’

left nothing to plunge
into new world conflicts, a hundredfold
more terrible and destructive if it is
his class interests will demand it. She,
bourgeoisie, will not stop even in the face of danger
danger of the destruction of the entire culture and may go
in their class blindness, not towards
peaceful, quiet decline, and catastrophes,
face of social conflictam.

The only class in capitalism
society, which, defending itself, in which
in the end and will lag behind until the end
the common interests of all mankind are
proletariat The fuller and deeper it becomes
children to become aware of their historical
mission on new principles of organizational
system of farms, the more completely it masters
works using the methods of proletarian culture,
taken in the broadest sense, so
faster and more painlessly with minimal dis-
it will be a waste of energy for the great pro-
the process of World Reorganization.

Collect elements of a new culture, system
matize them, develop them further, expand
spread them, propagandize, create
there is an atmosphere of sympathy around this case
interest, enthusiasm—this is one of the important
the greatest challenges of our time.

Humanity is experiencing deep autumn and
decline of bourgeois culture, early spring

and the rise of a new culture - Proletarian. No."

I. Kan.
181U - 22 1,

Economy and public.

Genoa Conference.

b

Tired and exhausted Europe is thirsty
peace and tranquility!

The drunken, victorious frenzy has long passed
allies, and yet, despite all the
tempting promises that should have
be completed after defeating Germany-
tsami, despite the disarmament of the central
powers, Europe continues to seethe with anger
and hatred, but the winners don’t even think
about real disarmament.

The ghosts of new wars are hovering in space.
quality Instead of disarmament, members of the French
For example, the government is confused
continue to scream about the “German danger”,
about “Russian militarism”, etc. In addition
to this in almost every country, due to
with unemployment and general economic crisis
Vis, there is a noticeable increase in new revolutions
nal wills, on the crest of which the looming
there are dire omens for everything
pitalistic system.

How many international conferences have there been?
rents to resolve all issues related to
associated with the end of the global carnage?

The Genoa Conference is considered
That thirteenth is a tragic figure, sym-
volizing a situation in whichonly
now, after almost four years of “peace”,
for the first time in a wider circle of

`There is a question about the restoration of Europe. This
“only proves that neither the Treaty of Versailles,

cost Europe about 10 million lives
no longer, nor the famous League of Nations this
they couldn't resolve it. "Winners", dik-

who have hitherto sold only their own conditions,
who knew only one way to fight them
opponents - occupation, intervention,
blockade and all sorts of “reparations” must now
time to admit your powerlessness with such measures
ways to restore normal life
Europe.

Did the “winners” think about this?
inflicting your Treaty of Versailles?

Take, for example, England and its current
decided helmsman Lloyd George.

One of the most prominent English economists
stov, who was one of the races during the war
holders of war loans in the British
treasury and subsequently participated
in the preliminary discussion of the terms of Ver-
al treaty—Keynes, testifies
now 1) that this agreement was with the English
side partly used by Lloyd-Jurd-
It's like an election stunt. “We need to
make Germany pay for all the military
expenses"—under this slogan it was necessary
gather the obedient chamber and introduce expectations
people, in the sense of fulfilling the promises of the military
long time in a certain direction. Himself
Lloyd George, as Keynes emphasizes,
never said that he believes in payment-
ability of Germany, according to the established
conditions specified in the Treaty of Versailles.

But quite a bit of time has passed since then.
me. The terrible consequences of the war knocked out
life out of its normal rut. Buyer-
the ability of the middle and eastern Euro-

1) John Maynord Keynes. Economic
consequences of the world.

38 RO:

№1 (6)

py decreased many times due to
difficult economic situation, created
the Treaty of Versailles, with one hundred
Rona, the blockade of Russia on the other. During the time
wars in various world markets have been established
America, Japan, neutral countries
us, with whom competition is not immediately possible
can give favorable results; at times
lichcolonies, such as in India, Egypt
those due to non-receipt of many products
from the metropolis, created its own non-
big industry. As a result, the “victory”
bodies”, intoxicated with victorious glory, writhe
in the convulsions of the economic crisis; in
as a result, the number of unemployed in England
reaches up to 2 million with large
number of workers employing only a few
hours a day.

The following are eye-catching numbers
on the state of large-scale industry (coal-
noah, cast iron, steel and weaving) brighter
generally characterize the situation in which
all the major powers found themselves in a post-
war period:

Coal was mined (million tons, average):

G From ‚ || Germany

|: You are Eri. E

ZEE

C". 45 = E A > | 5
room 24.3 |43.13.4 | 144 | 73 i
1918.....| 19.2 5182.2 | 123| 83119
FE; 19.5 |41.2]1.88)| 89| 7815
1920—1st par. 21.0 |47.312;7 | 10.2 | 82 [1.8
190 2nd „|200 |43.6]2.6 | 109 | 859 [18
1920 3rd „| 20.2 | 48.43 l | 13 | 9.6 [1.9
1920 4th „| 16.2') 52.8} 3.2 | 118 | 10.2 1.8
1921 1st | 170 | 34.028 | 12.0 | 9.919
1921 I „| — 31323 | 82 | 98 1.6
1921 3rd „| 159 | 387] — | 1155 | 105 79

1) See “World economy before and after
war“ N. Sukhanova. “The Red Book”, |, ed.
Profinterna, Moscow, 1922

2) There was a strike in December.

3) There was a strike for three months.

1) With Alsace-Lorraine, as well as further.

5) Only for July.

Cast iron produced (in thousands of tons, avg.

per month):

HER

I | =

ii - PE E:
EU: 869 | 2693 | 437 | 207.
1918 768 | 3308 | 108| —
1919......| 62| 2697 | 01| 2
1920—1st quarter...| 670 | 3124 200 54
1920 2nd „ 739 | 2956 224 89
1920 3rd, 748 | 3126 |. 330 | 111
1920 4th „ 606 | 3310 | 358 | 123
1921 1st ›, 464 | 2000 | 295 | 108
1921 2nd › 25 | 1156 | 286 80
t o 87 935 256 43
E a d 261 m —— —

Steel processing (thousands of average tons)

per month): :
5:
EE:
in | 38| |3
"| o e|v
1918 t... .|. 600 120881 |. 368-206
O U RAINSM 812 | 3766 | 150 —
A 659 | 2936 | 182 28
1920—1st quarter...| 797 | 36741! 193 69
1920 2nd „ 795 | 3400 |169 | 104
1920 3rd „ 795 | 3541) 12771118
1920 4th ›„ 602 | 3219 | +316 | 121
1921 1st, 445 | 2202 | 262 | 104
TAG 2nd > $26 | 1395 | 247 72
1921 3rd „ .| 327 | 1171 | 230 RH
1921 4th „ 376 | 1735 — —

No. 1 (6) ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. 39
Gathered at the beginning of 1922 in Cannes
Reworked | Simple faith- : Ut: : :
but don’t go ahead, the Union Conference decided to convene
instrumentation); howl week. financial and economic conference of all
5 g of European governments, including prices
1 ыы -
= : = : a R-r of the mine sweeping powers of Russia and Bulgaria, for
Neya =I |-=7|I=7I resolve these issues. Exhibited
=> a m b d a t b . t.
522 | for | 2 e> =o> the main conditions were reduced to the following:
and 1) “No state can impose
seize the right to dictate to another state
England. 1200 630 6.04 | 12.92 to the gift of the principles on which the latter
must regulate its system according to its own
E you. ; = E
original THETETA 2820 2558 ness, internal economic life and
France... 316 7251 2.3 6.92 governance: every nation is free to choose
: bore the system which she herself prefers
Germany. ..| 393 | 2457 7.5 5.40 in this area. 2) However, before
aliya... 394 289 0.9 3.11 any state can use-
with the help of foreign capitalists,
Japan. 901 971 - - the latter must be assured that
y: will be respected and
and ra E her > their property and rights
dikh a en 904 and that the fruits of their activities will ensure
Spain .. 181 117 47 9.1 baked behind them. 3) Valid guarantees
security cannot be restored
Belgium. 114 82 ti 12.9 until the governments of all state
All RE You countries wishing to take advantage of foreign
orny & 10 credits, will not declare quite clearly
Czechoslovakia. 95 114 13.3 8.76 it is true that they recognize all state
debts and obligations entered into and
may be concluded or guaranteed
; State-controlled municipalities
1913 1920|1921 1920 1921 mi or any other public
nym ororganizations, & also obligatory
(Thousand tons or |(Million fun. to restore all foreign-owned
Mild. sq. yard). erased). property to foreigners" or compensate
them for losses caused to them by
now with fiscation or sequestration of their property,
n: 73.4) 24.9 21.6] 99.6] 4259 in the system of legislation and court, which
Iron and became. which would impartially protect the rights
products .. 4.9 3.2 1.7| 128.9] 63.8 and obligations arising from commercial
a C
° max. yarn. | 210.0] 147.4] 145.9] 47.6) 23.9 o NOT o riat. E
we must have sufficient funds
_ Cotton paper ‚: exchange, and generally create conditions for financial
fabrics (mm. sq. and monetary circulation, in sufficient
_ Yard.) ... 7.075] 4435.4, 2.902] 815.1| 181.2 fines ensuring the conduct of trade.
Wool fabrics. 105.8] 187.2 76.6] 75.2! 24.6 5) All nations must refrain from pro-
, propaganda aimed at the overthrow of the Su-
_Linyan. gzzelia || 193.7| 93.0] 40.0] 149 5.3 the existing order and to the establishment in
other countries other political system’

‚So, the industry has fallen, it has shrunk
everyday life, and in search of a way out, the “winners” you

_We had to turn to our pro-
Tivniks in order to open markets for themselves

and together try to improve
_@in0e position.

And.
T, . х ‹

we. 6) Mutual obligation to abstain
avoid attacks on your neighbors
all countries must take over. If in
in order to ensure the conditions necessary
for the development of trade in Russia, Russian
the government will demand an official
knowledge, then the Allied powers will be ready
agree to such recognition, but only in
40 BURN.

№1 (6)

in the event that the Russian government. co-
is consistent with the above conditions."
In the future, among the allies we will plan
There were two orientations. One is English,
seeking to advance the cause of the convocation, the Euro-
Pei conference, which was appointed
Chena in Genoa; the other is French, even
who realized that Briand turned out to be too compliant
honorable to Lloyd George, that
involvement of Germany and Russiaand in the direction of me-
international relations on equal terms
does not correspond to the policy that
France defended all the time, and therefore
trying to delay the question somehow
about convening a conference. As a result, Briand
was “dismissed”, and Poincaré took his place,
who, with a long-familiar arrogance,
began to sabotage the convening of the conference.
First the question was posed: “go or
shouldn't you go to the conference? Staged
there was “public opinion”, expressing
fighting for “not to go”; then when
Poincare felt that France could
find himself isolated, he continued to
Briand's lyticism, for his whims threatened
the fact that France could\ turned out to be absent-
existing where the most important
world economic issues (concessions,
loans, debts, etc.). Poincaré, however,
having achieved from Lloyd George that. conditional
The treaty of Versailles will be nothing
violated and that the allies will converge in advance
on a number of conditions that must
to be presented to yesterday's invitees
opponents, mainly Russia.
The development of these conditions was delayed
the conference, although officially postponed, was
interpreted by the ministerial crisis in Italy
Lii. Finally, in London a special meeting
broadcast by experts from interested powers
developed conditions that boiled down to
to the next one. |
The Soviets will have to recognize the financial
owl obligations, former king
government, in relation to both foreign
both states and citizens of the latter.
Regarding the question of whether
and to what extent should the new state-
estates created on the territory of the former Rose-
Siy and Zheper recognized as special state-

ties, take on a certain part
Russian debts, ‘then experts read it
a political issue, the resolution of which
which will depend on the corresponding
agreements between governments.

The Soviets will also have to recognize the fl-
financial obligations as local authorities,
and government institutions in relation to
to foreign states of their citizenship
waiting... The Soviets mustwill take on
assume responsibility for all losses and
real losses ‘sustained by the foreigner-
due to the fault of the Soviet government, or...
his predecessors, and in all cases
responsibility of the Soviet government
will be established by the Russian Commission
debts and mixed arbitration courts,
the creation of which is provided for in the agreement
a treasure trove of experts. Commission on Russian dollars
gam, which is about to be created, will be co-
made up of members appointed by the Soviet
government, and members appointed by other
other states. Chairman of the Commission
must be elected from among the members of the commission
these. This commission will resolve the issue of establishing
expectations, functions and organization of mixed
arbitration courts—will deal with the issue of
issue of new Russian bonds, which
will be issued to replace the previous Russian
securities. r

Then, in the report, developing in detail
the issue of guarantees that should be
demanded from Russia. Soviet authorities
according to experts, we are obliged to allow
accordingly the question of the fate
guarantees, and must comply with
given the following principles: 1) separation
judiciary from the executive; 2) un-
hangability of judges; 3) application of the law-
specific standards, previously published
new and equal for everyone; 4) foreign
must be guaranteed against arbitrary
arrests and violation of the principle of non-
limited housing; in addition, foreign
citizens should have free access to this
cial tribunals: for foreigners; 5) ha-
guarantee of the right of cassation and appeal; 6). pre-
delivery to the parties entering into agreements
thieves, rights to enforce laws
other states; 7) judicial procedure,
guaranteeing the execution of foreign sentences
strange ships; 8) obedience to decisions
arbitration court on all disputes arising
repentant in connection with © concluded agreements
ramie

Further, the expert report stipulates that
By the way, I am waiting for the following points: 1) freedom
entry and exit of foreigners; 2) mastered

%

|}
|
|
No. 1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. 41

keeping foreigners away fromany forced
private loans; 3) freedom of relations
loy, telegraph and radio telegraph; 4) free
freedom of trade and trade without any restrictions
discounts for foreigners; 5) free
travel of foreigners on all roads from the right
vom use of all means of transport
that; 6) the right of requisition is allowed only
in exceptional cases in which
reading as compensation the amount you-
pay immediately; 7) foreign
trading partnerships have the right to
trading rates on an equal basis with individuals -
mi; 8) partnerships and individual foreign
merchants do not pay extraordinary taxes
goods from which Russian predir-
carers; 9) foreigners arriving in
Russia © with the goal of doing their profession there
sociality, trade and industry,
have the right of free import from abroad
food, clothing and tools
both for personal use and for
use of workers in their employ
foreigners or Russians; 10) passports, you-
given by the Russian authorities guarantee
the bearer has full protection and the right to
not by trade, trade or other
_ social occupation; 11) searches in apartments
or foreign-owned institutions
pam living in Russia & also arrests
can take place only in agreement
this and in the presence of the appropriate con-
sula; 12) sentences passed by Russians
tribunals against foreigners may be
carried out only with the consent of the con-
sula; 13) persecution for political
convictions can only be limited to successful
transfer outside the state, provided
vii consent to, then the consul; 14) in some
Free zones will be created in ports.

I.

Opening of the Genoa Conference. appointment
It was April 10th.

The Russian delegation, selected at the
public meeting of V. Ts. I. K., had
There are two meetings on the way to Genoa. On the first,

In Riga, which was attended by representatives

Latvia, Estonia and Poland (for informational purposes
and the representative of Finland), was rendered
a number of resolutions concerning economic
skogo revival Easternoh Europe and time
development of normal trade between pre-

conquered countries. As a logical conclusion,
the meeting expressed the opinion that it “believes
timely recognition by European countries
Zhawami R.S.F.S.R. de jure.” Second co-
the broadcast was in Berlin with the Germans and had
result signed subsequently in
Genoa Russian-German Treaty.

Finally, in a solemn atmosphere
The Genoa Conference also opened. On
the first plenary meeting was expressed
many beautiful phrases. Chairman Facta
noted that “there should be no
winners and losers." He echoed
Lloyd George, who, starting with the indication,
that “we meet here as equals
wah”, outlined 4 conditions that must
be the basis for all the work of Genoa-
conference: 1) If the country accepts
assumes contractual monetary and im-
social obligations, then this agreement
cannot be canceled upon change
government, 2) no country should
campaign against the social order
another, 3) no nation should attack
give to the territory of another, 4) citizens
any country must find unprincipled
passionate trial in judicial institutions
another country.

In the West, he pointed out, unemployment is
East - famine and plague; peoples of all heavens and
of all classes—you are all subjected to cruelty
to many sufferings, some more, others less
oh, but you all suffer, and unless
the total voltage will be done to return
Europe to normal production conditions
property, then, as some have already shown
signs, our ‘suffering will continue
huddle and you will find yourself in the most desperate
position ,

The representative who spoke after him
In France, Barthou approached the matter more
stuttered and said what should have been said
be a prologue to his further “pursuit”
monetary policy.

“Europe,” he declared, “is tired of barrenness.”
recitation and requires methodological and
fruitful course of action that
one can restore her balance. It was
42 RO "ROAR"

№1 (6)

it would be madness to think that the Genoese con-
ference, as if by manothe venom of the magical pa-
boxes, will be able to erect on the ruins,
piled up in Europe, a fabulous for-
the possibility of immediate economic revival
nia. But. it would be even more madness
and besides, disastrous and disastrous madness
destructive, cross your arms and do nothing
to undertake simply because it is pre-
There’s too much to take in.”

Following the pale performances of
representative of Belgium-Tennis and Germany -
Virta was spoken by Comrade Chicherin from the very beginning,
who made the conference a business goal
plane.

“The Russian delegation,” he said, “appeared
came here in the interests of peace and universal
economic recovery, which are not
achievable while the threat still looms
new wars...

The Russian delegation intends to propose
live a general reduction in armaments and
supplementing the rules of war with the prohibition of war
Varic forms of it - suffocating gases, aero-
plans and the use of destructive
weapons against civilians. Russia
ready to reduce its weapons at
condition of reciprocity and guarantee against attacks
and interventions.

Welcoming English offer
premiere about periodic conferences,
The Russian delegation considers it necessary
turn them into ‘congresses of all nations.
Formal worker participation required
organizations at general congresses. Their
decisions should not be made coercively
specifically. The World Congress will allocate technical
technical commissions for program development
general restoration; they will co-
promote the development of measures to improve the world
new ways, the internationalization of which
will occur gradually, stabilization
currency, finding ways to redistribute
of gold, and pre-war proportions in the form
long-term loans, combined with planned
distribution of production, trade
etc. |

As communists, we have no illusions
regarding eliminating the causes of wars and eco-
economic crises, but we are ready to support
reap all attempts aimed at least to
palliative improvement of the world economy
stavva and limiting the possibility of new wars.
The Russian delegation declares itsre-
commitment to contribute with all our might to success
conference proceedings"...

The proposal of the Russian delegation is re-
pulled Barta. Without entering into a discussion of these
questions, he invited them to shine, if not
provided for by the Cannes meeting.
Lloyd George had to speak. in ka-
honor of a conciliator, and he, answering Comrade Chi-
Cherina, stated:

“If you overload the Nalu program,
then you will ruin the conference. If Chicherin
will not count as ©. lifting capacity
ship at the conference, then he re-
is loading, and I must indicate that in the number
himself will be a victim of a shipwreck
Chicherin."

It was possible, of course, to become obese earlier
give that this will be the decision of the conference
tion, but in the eyes of the broad masses of the whole world
Comrade's proposal Chicherin appeared worthy
a clear and visual response to the speech appeared
the leader of the same France, Briand, ranted
which existed at one time in Washington =
conference © “Russian militaristic-
danger" which supposedly prevents
France disarmed.

After this meeting, all the work of the conference
rents concentrated mainly
in commissions.

In response to the memorandum of the commission of experts
Comrade, Comrade Chicherin sent to Lloyd George
a letter stating that the requirements
Russia’s ‘are: “Immediate recognition
Russia, immediate provision of Russian
these substantial loans, cancellation of military
debts, as well as interest on them. Eeli
these conditions will be accepted, Roesia agrees
The city recognized pre-war debts. However,
Russia requires a deferred payment in the form of
morality for approximately 20 years, including

\<- \GARORVAT

LE AN <

No. yes

o Aa ©

ze 2 cool

C"
No. t (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. : 43

writing off interest on pre-war debts.
As for the claims of the former owners
nikovs, then Russia if satisfied
the requirements mentioned above, agrees
to grant concessions to the former rulers
to businessmen, where this is possible; in
the same conditions where these concessions are not
It is possible to provide, Soviet government
the government will agree to satisfy the
prudent ‘requirements, or by mutual
I agreedirectly © former
owners, or on terms that
will be developed during the conference
tion."

Attached to this letter was a long
a memorandum indicating, among other things,
to the following:

Instead of talking about restoration
the rise of Europe and the associated uprising
development of the Russian economy, experts, chief
in a special way, paid attention to the issues
satisfaction of claims of creditors of Russia
these. Considering that the restoration of Russia is possible
can be successfully carried out with the participation of foreign
strange capital, the memorandum notes,
that, in connection with the new economic policy,
the latter has now been provided with sufficient
rights and guarantees. Referring further to point
24 memorandums from London experts, stre-
seeking to establish extraterritoriality
for foreigners, our memorandum is rejected
it in the same way as the proposed establishment
the creation of the “commission on Russian affairs”, which,
like the Versailles “reparation co-
mission", would turn into a control body
over the entire economic life of the Republic.
All this not only violates the sovereignty
Russia, but also contradicts the Cannes clause
resolutions on non-interference in internal
understanding the affairs of each country. Memorandum of Tre-
will be recognized by the R.S.F.S.R. de jure and
indicates that the allies are still
did not make the slightest attempt to enter
agreement with the Soviet government for zalcita
interests of their citizens and amicable liquidation
dation of their property rights, but, on the contrary,
blockade and interventions inflicted on Russia
terrible losses that give much 6b0-

more indisputable right to compensation than
claims from former property owners
Russia and Russian loans.

“The strangest thing,” says the memorandum,
me: “hear a demand for compensation for losses-
damages inflicted by citizens of states without
who successfully fought against Russia, from the lips
government representatives who used
during war, the right to confiscate private property
property of citizens of the opposing party
on (its ‘territory and those who approved it
right by the Treaty of Versailles even for peace
for a long time, placing, in addition, on everything
nsettlement of the defeated state with property
liability for losses associated
military actions inflicted on the winners -
mi of his government.

If the Soviet government were obliged to
decided to pay from national income, dis-
native country at least part of the amounts indigenous
which follow from those listed in the
Don Memorandum of Obligations, then this
would not only lead to systematic
underconsumption and chronic degeneration
its population, but also the most serious
This would have delayed the entire process of military restoration.
of her economy."

Assuming further the principle of mutual compensation
tion of losses, the Russian memorandum
attempts to shoulder the ruined
nogo Russian [people a significant proportion
military expenses, because what is called
"Russia's war debts", represents a co-
battle stocks of military supplies, manufactured
manufactured in factories of allied countries and sent
going to the Russian front to ensure
success of the allied armies. This requirement is
is all the more unfair because
that the allies received enormous benefits from the war
increment of territories and indemnity, and in
Russia, which sacrificed the all-Union
interests of more lives than everything else
new allied countries together, want to find
costs for these operations.

Regarding the return of property
to the previous owners, then it can pro-
work only within the framework of the currently established

new economic policy. Ze

=
4

GOR

No. 1 (6)

Further, regarding Russia’s obligations, memo-
randum notes that, according to the production
According to calculations, the amount of Russian debts is equal to
It amounts to 180 billion gold rubles.

“With the deduction of war debts, it turns out
amount of pre-war debts and private claims
with interest until December 1, 1921 in figures
about 11 billion, and with interest of 1
November 1927 about 13 billion. If
admit for a moment that the Soviet government
would agree to pay these debts
din completely and on time, then per-
payment with interest and repayment
debt would require an amount of about 1.2 million
liarda. The tsarist government is hugeth
tension of the population's payment forces in c0-
standing was based on pre-war products
in the economy and pre-war dimensions of external
trade that had an excess of exports over
import, in the last 5 years before the war, in
average 366 million per year, pay
interest and repayments of about 400 million
rubles per year. To be able to
to reach the specified amount of 1.2 billion
per year, Russia must not only achieve
pre-war products by 1927, but also pre-
increase it three times. Since
useful net national income of Russia
equaled 101 rubles before the war. per capita
population, & currently stands at
about 30 rub. per capita, i.e. decreased
more than 3 times, then the memorandum of the expert
Comrade tacitly seems to assume that
in 5 years our national income should
increase 9 times...

...The tsarist government paid annually-
but before the war, for his debts, the amount

.‚ equal to 3.3 percent. all clean or annually
of national income and about 13 percent,
the entire state budget. Memorandum-
Doom of experts considers it possible to demand
from Russia payment after 5 years of such an amount,
which is equal to 20 percent. everything increased. on
30 percent national income and about 80
proc. of all current state
budget of Russia, and payment should
produced by countries, annual national
whose cash income per capita

^

7-8 times the national income
Russia."

Among the tense atmosphere created
both memorandums, a bomb exploded
suddenly a Russian-German treaty, which in
compared to what the Allies suffered
kami, is the simplest solution to
request for the restoration of normal inter-
relationships.

Among the general excitement, special
The French distinguished themselves with hysterics, seeing
there is even a violation of Versailles in this
agreement. “The Germans are coming to life again, the Germans are...
they are tearing our rightful bone from us”—this is
was the meaning of all the hysterical attacks of the French
Tsuz press. It was already staged in Genoa
the question of breaking with the Germans and Russians,
was preparing already Wedat the conference, but also at
this time Lloyd George, albeit with a sour mi-
noah, acted as a conciliator, and finally you
a move was found in eliminating the Germans from the co-
mission discussing the Russian question. World-
Chicherin’s letter also added a new note
to Bart, in whom the first assured the French
tsuzov that there are no secret military agreements
tions directed against a third power,
not included in the Russian-German treaty.

The French are quite understandably worried,
I guess I didn't really care
Lloyd George. The question of attitude towards Germany
mania and Russia has long been a stone
stumbling blocks in the relationship between
France and England. England, although not quite
against the noose placed on Germany,
against, however, the fact that she completely
lingered over her. This is dictated by considerations
the affairs of world politics, in which everything
more often, quite large differences are observed
Glasiya between England and France. Part
public 'opinion in England is expressed
even for rapprochement with Germany. The same
Keynes, for example, in order to restore
Europe and, in particular, Russia, considers
necessary to attract German enterprises
impetus and organization. "In our in-
teresah, he writes, to hasten the coming of the day,
when German agents and organizers
will be able to awaken in every

}

Ha

No. 1 (6)

7
ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. 45

village impulses of ordinary economic
movements" 1) Keynes goes even further: "The Union
free, trade,” he writes; “turn on-
covering the entire middle, eastern and southeastern
new Europe, Siberia, Turkey and (I hope)
England, India and Egypt, maybe
as much as the League of Nations. The rest
(Belgium, Holland, Scandinavia, Switzerland
ria, France and Italy) would join
subsequently."

Lloyd George's sober policy, although
does not look for reasons to aggravate relations
with France, but still goes his own way,
being under the influence of the above-mentioned
public opinion in England. And as if feeling
facing the threat of isolation hanging over her,
France reluctantly, gnashing its teeth, but everything
it's still stretchingfor Lloyd George. And if,
for example, France's signature on the second memo
randum presented to our delegation,
was conditional, there is no doubt that it
is only an unnecessary demonstration, sub-
highlighting her intransigence. France
did not lose anything in this case, because
is small that the second memorandum is not
the final word of those who signed it
zhav, and that at the same time our delegation
will not sign it headlong.

The policy of France and England in Genoa
of the conference is especially clearly characterized
is expressed by the following two statements, made
stated in conversations with journalists:

"When I return to England," said
Lloyd George: “2,000,000 unemployed
They will ask me what I have done for them."

"When I return to Paris," he said
same to journalists Bart: “a million owners
Russian values will ask me what I'm eating-
lal for them"? E -

And yet, of course, one cannot say about
Lloyd George that he is full of concessions
responsiveness towards Russia. Bargaining still
not finished, but the demand is unusually high, and;
as the delegation noted, the second
the memorandum in some respects puts
more unacceptable conditions than the first.

’) Keynes. Economic futures of the world.

Its main points boil down to the following:
to whom:

Article 1, which treats iropagan, is obligatory
calls on the Soviet government to desist
from interference in internal affairs,
other states, from any actions that
capable of violating the territorial and political
ical status quo, in these “countries, and
suppress any attempts on its territory
To assist the revolutionary movement
marriage in other countries. Soviet government
the rebellion must also contribute to the rebellion
restoration of peace in Asia Minor and hold on
strict neutrality towards war
foreign countries.

Art. 2nd talks about debts during the spring time
foreign governments. The latter are not
will now demand no payments, &
to resolve the issue of war debts
between all the allies and America the alliance-
governments will offer their parliamentary
cops Socratesto pay the debts that follow him from.
Russia on the same grounds, and
financial and
economic situation in Russia. With my
on the part of the Soviet government must
appear from their counter-claims in connection
with intervention. Amounts on
account of former Russian governments for
border, comes as payment for military
no debts to the Soviet government either. maybe
rotate.

Art. 3, 4, 5 and 6 talk about ‘settled
nii other financial claims, about
recognition by the Co-government of the debts of the former
governments, municipal debts and
on agreement with holders of Russian securities.

Art. 7th talks about the freedom of Russia
infuse any property system into
farming and government. For
encouraging foreign aid to Russia, the Council
the government agrees to return
confiscated property of former foreigners
ny owners or compensate them. When
compensation is given in cases where
when a foreigner does not get the opportunity
take over your former rights. If you agree
the decision on the amount of compensation cannot
be achieved, then the issue is resolved by changing
by the arbitration tribunal.

Art. 8th gives opportunity to foreigners
recover losses from private individuals in Russia,

Art. The 9th states that compensation follows-
section from the 7th article, is paid five times
cent bonds, what are the terms and methods
payment, interest and amortization are established
is determined by the arbitration commission.
46 E:

No. 1 (6)

Art. The 10th talks about the composition of mixed
arbitration tribunals appointed by
efficient countries. One member is appointed
Soviet government, the other is interested
resuscitated by foreign governments, &
the third - the chairman of the arbitration committee
missions.

Art. 11th interprets the position of foreign
tsev in Russia, referring to Article nine-
this is the seventeenth of the London Memorandum.

Art. The 12th speaks vaguely about the treaty
rah and contracts between Russians and foreigners
strangers, regarding what should ©0-
stand 060battle agreement with the Soviet
government.

Art. The 13th returns to the Romaniangov-
values deposited by him in Russia
ness.

According to the latest information, nala, de-
the delegation has already submitted a response to the memorandum
allies. The answer sharply notes
torture interference, in the naliu internal and
foreign policy, since the latter is not
contradicts the current international
folk law, it is noted that Kan
the resolution was adopted by Russia under non-
a prerequisite for the application of the principle,
reciprocity, indicates that, although for
Russia, in principle, recognizes the right of organiza-
dismantled its property system, but practically
tical [items of the relevant steel
memorandums are in full agreement with this
contradictions are rejected and arbitration
courts as violating the sovereignty of Russia,
especially since there can be no passionlessness
a new super-arbiter in case of antagonism between
two property systems.

Stressing that Russia agrees to
serious concessions, the delegation believes together
with the fact that, due to the extreme complexity
questions, their study could be re-
given to the commission.

Sh.

All these big and important questions
accompanied by a number of other more secondary
foam issues related to Russia
these. One of these questions is,
example, the question of Georgia, which has filled itself with
“protector” in the person of France.

France, under whose yoke a number groan.

peoples in the vast expanse of Af-
Rica and Asia, which is in front of the whole world
enslaved, Saar region, where for, 650,000
the German population in 1918 was only
100 French, - this "France is very
acted as a “defender of the rights of the oppressed”
Georgia".

If you look closely at the hype,
which raised in Genoa around the council-
oil, then the reason for any
bvi France to the Caucasus and Georgia,
in particular. And the weight of Georgian men-
Shevite mourners, despite everything
their efforts, beyond the ministerial front-
they were not sent... As if walking along the line of the most
less resistance and transferring this during
ask in its real plane, french
the Tsuzs insisted that, in case of return
private enterprisespersons, preference from-
was given to the previous owners (the French did not
little interest in this!). This way
ZOM, in their opinion, would resolve the issue and
regarding the participation of the French in the exploitation
tation of Russian oil, which is so
Americans, British, etc. are also greedy.

France also supports Romania
and its seizure of Bessarabia, continues in Ge-
well `to set Poland against us, not-
despite the fact that the latter signed a pro-
tokol in Riga, which is considered necessary
we acknowledge P; S. HF. S.R. de jure. By-
the latter circumstance even caused an exchange
notes in Genoa between 'comrade Chicherin and
Skirmunt.

Our delegation, when it came to talking about
oppressed peoples, knew how to stage these
questions in their actual coverage, you
calling for explanations from interested parties
regions (Japan, Romania, etc.).

At one time, after the answer, our delegate-
tions for the first memorandum, conference
I was at a dead end. Allowed for the possibility
rupture. Some of the delegates, especially
inclinations, representatives of the Little Entente, inclinations
was to postpone the conference for six
months, so that during this time I can “think through and
weigh all the materials.

No. 1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. 47

One thing, however, now stands out clearly and

relief. An agreement with us is necessary

Eurona as well as us. Therefore, if
the conference even ends in nothing, then not
the possibility of separate agreements is excluded
ny. France's attempts to thwart all efforts
in order for Krenko to organize the powers,
who signed the Versailles Treaty do not give the desired
solid results. At the last moment
disagreements, for example, between France and
England were designated not only by “Russian”
skogo issue", on the issue of politics in
Asia Minor, etc. etc., but also according to the Polish military
millet Lloyd George's statement on the need
the value of the revision, Vilensky, eastern
Galician and Saar issues caused
storm of indignation in Paris. According to information
press, Bartu received instructions to protest
oppose any attempts to change the position
the situation created as a result of Versailles
sky world. Little Entente, inin particular,
Poland, in turn, goes on a rampage, threatening
leaving the conference.

This emerging boom in the camp
allies, as well as the main issue © re-
new economy of Europe, cannot but
bring England to agreement © median
Europe and Russia, and to the isolation of the French
skoy politics. From this point of view for us
THAT situation will not be terrible if
The Genoa Conference will not end as expected.
given by general agreement.

On the contrary, there are compelling reasons why
that both in the interests of Soviet Russia and

‘and in the interests of the revolution, separate agreements

solutions would be more profitable.

I. Trainin.

R. 5. This article was typed even before
end of the Genoa Conference.

As you know, the last one ended in
the establishment of the convening of a new conference in The Hague
ration, which will deal with the resolution of eco-
economic problems, especially about
new property and loans. Until the end

works of the Hatheque Conference, the powers obligated
’ They promise not to take any aggressive

actions and not interfere in internal
understanding the affairs of other countries.

Already in the preparatory work of Kyu Haag-
conference, again there were different
Glasiya between England and France. This
also slipped into Lloyd George's speech about
Genoa Conference, delivered by him
in the Chamber of Deputies, and in those memorandums
exchanged recently
English and French governments.

The British government has spoken out
for example, against the proposals of the French
government that in advance
discussion in The Hague without the participation of Russian
skikh to develop a “plan for the restoration of Russian
these” and then offer it to the Co-Praveller
stu. Further, in contrast to France, England
speaks out against pressure on Russia,
so that she takes back her memo-
random dated May 11. Regarding the question about
returned the value of private property, then 'An-
glia believes that Russia has the right to dispose
huddle at your own discretion, although
and insists on compensation in one way or another
form of the previous owners.

In response to thisAnsuz memorandum
notes that at the moment there is no
It would be reasonable to break up the “united front”
against Russia. Regarding the refund
private property, then France agrees
agreeing with England that every country has the right
dispose of at your own discretion -
nyu, still believes that with the current
conditions, the Co-government is unable
supposedly guarantee the rights of former owners
people, and therefore considers it more purposeful
appropriate return of property and pre-
welcome to the previous owners.

On the question of Russian war debts, in
counterbalance to England, which declared that it
tova wrote off part of what was due to her
Russian military debts, French government
The government states that we can talk about.
installment payments, but that it is in no way.
case does not agree to reduce debt figures.

In this situation, the European powers
are approaching the Hague, which is now opening
conferences.
48

a ba.

E and VI

I

№1 (6)

Along with this, as a definite plus
our diplomacy should note the conclusion
understanding of the political and trade agreement with

Czechoslavia, which followed
skoy conference.

Genoa-

N.T.

Economics and politics.

The historical moment we are experiencing
set before the working class the task of not
hitherto seen size. Under threat
the final enslavement of his empire
listist bourgeoisie, political and
economic slavery, capital, death
millions of proletarians from Tolod following
the effect of unemployment, under the threat of new wars,
where, as before, they will be killed and searched for
there are many millions of working people - worker
the class must find its way out of the impasse,
world economic post-war destruction
hn. The bourgeoisie is also looking for its way out.

And, in what is called the League of Peoples, and on
various Meetings (and there were a lot of them)
many) of their patented diplomats and
economists, the bourgeoisie of the victorious countries
prostrate comes up with different ways to get out
out of the deadlock due to the strangulation of the working class
ha, as conquered countries (Germany, Av-
stria, Hungary, Türkiye), and countries
winners (England, Franation, America).

Suffocation occurs both by direct
violence against the working class, through dis-
arrows, executions and prisons, as well as environmental measures
nomic impact: reduction of infectious
Bottom board to the hungry level, extend-
negation of the working day; lockouts, and; finally
mass closure of factories and plants under
the influence of the global economic crisis.

In the honeymoons after the victory of the bourgeoisie
Entente Asia overcame the spontaneous revolutionary
the national mood of the workers is not favorable
letting go of unemployment without encroaching on the hall
warred by the working class subsistence
minimum, without resisting the reduction of ra-
every day. Despite the lack of sales
goods and reduction in military orders,
industry of the victorious countries
was in full swing until the moment

while the bourgeoisie, given the defeat of the
the working class in the defeated countries (Ven-
Germany, Germany, , Austria), as well as failure
revolutionary spirit of the working class in
Italy and Czechoslovakia, while the bourgeoisie
in connection with the approaching world economy
natural crisis, did not consider herself able to
relying on the full power of its state
power, move from defense to offense
niya along the entire front.

With the favorable assistance of the right
socialists of all stripes and ranks, at best
case when the opposition is hypocritical on their part,
position (resistance in words) in everything
the world is in the grip of a frenzied reaction, a dictatorship
insolent bourgeoisie, covered with figs
sheet of "democracy". Concessions to the working class
sous of their country, insured for a time
bourgeoisie of the victorious countries from the revolution
tion explosion did not interfere, but, on the contrary,
determined and formalized the desire of the bourgeois
Asia Entente brutally deal © Tru-
the fighting masses of the conquered countries.

The map of Europe was the will of the victors
redrawn, economic unity before
existing states were
completely torn.

Austria-Hungary broke up into a number of enemies
small states waiting among themselves,
each of which became unpaid
debtor and tributary of the victors, pote-
roaring his political and economic
nezaddiction.

There is an armed struggle with Turkey for
dividing it and turning it into a colony
English capitalism.

Germany according to the Versailles Peace Treaty
the dialect has lost its vast and richest
territories with huge coal reserves
ore, and is obliged to pay at 36 years of age

№1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. 49

indemnity in the amount of 132 billion
dov gold marks (with interest). Several
generations of the German working class by this
predatory agreement, in which
monstrous greed and anger appeared
juisies of the victorious countries are doomed to non-
bearable conditions, at the cost of slow hy-
leucorrhoea and degeneration from poverty and hunger,
save the bourgeoisie of your country and countries-
winners from final collapse.

To characterize the ways in which
the Entente bourgeoisie thought to insure
themselves from the revolutionary storms and impending
in the wake of the post-war crisis, let's stop
briefly on some, especially convex ones
from the point of view of predatory purposes, one hundred
ronach of this agreement. By transferring the amount due
readable for payment to the allies indemnity
tion equal to 132 billion gold coins
rock by weight, we'll get the weight of this golden
mass of 2,926,292 pounds. For transportation
how much gold would be required
3000 wagons or about 100 freight parcels
rides Annexation of Alsace-Lorraine, Saarland
basin and industrial areas
Upper Silesia was taken from Germany over
25% of annual coal production and 3/; th-
production of iron ore.

Annexation of agricultural economic areas
knowledge and Zamadna Prussia (Polish cor-
ridor) deprived Germany of 25% of production
food, bread, with a reduction in population,
the result of this annexation, at 6%.

Old Germany satisfied the food
free needs of its population
in the amount of 85%. Now she can pro-
feed no more than 50% of the population.

Within three months upon entry
by virtue of the Treaty of Versailles, Germany
undertakes to deliver to France and Belgium:
100 stud stallions, 40,000 mares,
4000 bulls, 140,000 dairy cows, 1200
‘rams, 120,000 sheep, 10,000 koz and 15.000
pigs.

This is preliminary before the production of windows -
detailed list of compensations. By January 1
1921 Germany delivered 131,500 tons of agricultural

Bugle No. 1 (6).

agricultural machines, and more than 27
the remaining merchant fleet.

In addition, Germany is known to co-
it was announced that 5000 locomotives would be issued to the allies
tivs, 150,000 wagons, etc. significant co-
quantity of railway materials.

According to German calculations, the value of all
these goods, railway materials,
ships, etc. is determined at 18.4 million
liards of gold marks.

“For the payment of the indemnity alone,
allies, not counting occupation and other
gih payments, you have to give the allies
kam annually about 31/, billion marks
gold.

Meanwhile, all national wealth
Germany is calculated in German economic
hundreds of 200-250 billion gold ma-
rock

Before the war, Germany had a national
income of 40 billion gold marks from
of which 32 billion went to consumption,
and 8 to the savings fund. Now this
the move does not exceed 25 billion gold marks 1).

Thus, the amount of monetary counter-
debts of Germany, subject to payment in te-
36 years, accounts for more than 50% of the total
its national wealth,

The value of the robbed materials is not
it's 10%. Annual payment of union debts
nikam accounts for at least 15% of the total
social income with its absolute social
reduction by 40% and with corresponding
reduction in consumption and background costs
dov of consumption.

Based on the Treaty of Versailles, Germany
mania lost not only its colonies, but also
all their capital abroad. In 1913
year the value of German enterprises and
other valuables abroad was calculated in
20-25 billion gold marks.

On average per capita
Germany accounts for an annual loss of

*) Wed. Art. Sh. Dvoilatsky “World Economy”
and the crisis of 1920 - 1921 in No. 1*. (5) "Red"
New January-February 1922)
50 about:

No. 1 (6)

work in favor of the allies is at least 25%.

It goes without saying that all the hardest
This loss falls on thework hard
current ones. Already by now, when
all the painful ones have not yet manifested themselves
consequences of the Treaty of Versailles and in a number of ways
reasons, the global economic crisis is still
did not affect Germany to a large extent,
real wages of the German workers
almost 5 times lower than American wages
Rican worker.

This is the “economic policy” of the world
bourgeoisie in the direction of resolving
left-war devastation, such is the attempt to “re-
Lansed" account of post-war losses and
based on the preservation of capitalist
relations to restore the destroyed wars
no productive forces and economic
connections between states.

While maintaining anarchist capital-
istic structure in advanced industrial
fief countries under the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie
represented by its financial oligarchy, if
it is possible to come to some kind of economic
new equilibrium, then only due to the elimination
the wounds of millions of unemployed, economic
Chinese slavery, and degeneration from malnutrition
and the exhaustion of several generations of workers
what class. ^

At present it is not possible to accurately
count all the losses suffered by the mi-
moat farming during the war. Considering
in addition to direct war expenses, losses from
mobilization of 70 million adults
tion, pbteri due to increased mortality
ity and a decrease in the birth rate over 35
million, losses due to shutdown
production and violation of economic
connections between states, without exaggeration
Therefore, it can be argued that Europe may
moment of the end of the war, impoverished, materially
values necessary for long-term
the latest development of production, at least
at least 50%.

Loss of an able-bodied male
in Europe exceeds 12%. Expenses
to the war directly, considering in this
including an estimate of the lives of 10 million killed

ty soldiers are equal to about 302 billion
USD or about 1270 billion
marks.

The indemnity imposed on Germany
must reimburse more than 109% of this
progress.

So the working masses, first of all,
among the defeated countries, shouldwere on
thoughts of the Entente bourgeoisie to pay the pain
most of the war losses; for this
the bourgeoisie of the Entente wanted plafs, insured
protect yourself from the onslaught, your own flight -
riat and largely restored
develop your productive forces.

In the direction of the specified “great goal:
get out of the deadlock of economic devastation and
insure yourself temporarily against revolutionary
great onslaught of the working class through plunder
the wife of the vanquished and economically weak

sovereign, even more important than ,

Germany had Soviet Russia.

It was necessary at all costs to unify
what to live as a hotbed of revolutionary infection, econ-
centered in the person of the III International
all the power of the revolutionary energy of the world
of the proletariat, leading the movement of the mi-
Rotten proletariat, confusing all calculations
bourgeois politicians and continuing
be a threat to the very existence of capital
Talistic world.

Soviet Russia had to perish,
the working masses had to pay
all debts to the allies, and the bowels of the earth: oil,
coal, ore, other raw materials,
bread, forest wealth, railways
etc. should have been provided
into exploitation of the allied capital.

Russia was to be turned into
semi-colonial state, territorial

ally robbed, (rejection of Ukraine, Kav- ,
Kazan Republics, parts of Siberia, etc.)

and the working people of Russia had to receive
The second Brest is heavier than Brest-
Lithuanian peace with Germany. Huge cre-
styansky consumer market should
was absorbing foreign products
thinking for the glory and salvation of capital
leafy world.

CHOIRRCHIYE WITH CHECHACHI CHN

uh

a:

№1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY.

51

Hunger blockade, Krasnov,
Wrangel, Kolchak, Yudenich, Savinkov, ban-
children's movements, terror - all vile
means of direct violence and bribery were
put into action to strangle the Workers' Cres-

Styanskaya Russia; were again spent on

and this adventure is hundreds of millions of people

money. Thanks to the dedicated support

®—to the development of the workers and peasants of the Soviet

°RRussia, this adventure finally failed

r lilae.

(Meanwhile, the © non-
®—post-war economic
t is a crisis that has thrown tens of millions of

lions of unemployed (currently their

found in the “civilized” world,

counting the semi-unemployed up to 15 million, and

© families of at least 40 million) and again

° in acute form before the world bourgeoisie

° stands the same, it seemed, after the defeat

” revolutionary movements of the proletariat, “already

’ problem solved: saving capitalism

ical world from the explosion of social

revolution, and the impending economic
no disaster.

”On the transformation of Soviet Russia into a co-

_ loniya, about its direct and immediate gra-

°—there can be no escape at the moment

Ai' speech. “Let them just try

_ val" do this, as soon as the complete

’ bankruptcy of their violence policy like this

> it happened before, and the bourgeoisie will face

 and the immediate threat of a natural explosion

_ social revolution, as it was in mo-

eont, when the Red Army was approaching

_ Warsaw. !

_ Too much risk and too big

” the bet is that the bourgeoisie of the allies will decide

I wanted to put it on. We need to take a detour

way.

Russia, although Soviet, must help

out of crisis; at least not completely

’ least not as much as I wanted before, but she

° Just like Germany, must pay

No. 3a losses, must be under the pressure of hunger and

r * Devastation (and if this is not enough, then

and under the threat of Polish intervention, Ru-

_Mynia, landing on the Black Sea victory-

t!
Denikin,

cuts, etc.), obey the demands
allies and be exposed to known
conditions of economic exploitation.

Hence the invitation to Genoa, where the union
all media will be put to use,
permissible 'impact to force
Soviet Russia to accept their terms; second-
they will try to create a swarm of Brest in Genoa.

Will the world bourgeoisie be able to overcome
economic crisis, following the path
along which she is still walking, has overcome
fly even if fullth subordination
Germany's allies and the possibility of inter-
drink to the cruelest exploitation Council
Russian Russia, i.e. due to the added value
the bridge of the working people of the defeated countries and
Soviet Russia;

The answer to this question depends entirely on
resistance forces of the world proletariat,
from a clear understanding of the task assigned to him
him of the task and its proletarian-class re-
sewing. In other words, the degree of culture
development of the world working class;
the clarity of his class consciousness,
his ability to organize production
construction—will determine the
solving the issue temporarily in favor of the bourgeoisie
or the proletariat.

The advanced most conscious and re-
revolutionary layer of the working class, organizational
internationally based
People's Association of Workers Sh Inter-
national solution to the issue is clear and clear
planned: social revolution, transition
ny period of the dictatorship of the proletariat, the com-
municipal construction.

Outlining a solution to the problem is not yet
means at the moment to be able
solve it. V.

Since the formation of T.Ing. by Marx
international, socialism as the ultimate goal
working class, carried out through
dictatorship of the proletariat and social re-
revolution was always on everyone's program
social democratic parties. (Only re-
the formists disputed and are challenging the need
danger of social revolution and dictatorship
proletariat).

4"
52: Horn:

№1 (6)

But there is a distance from the program to the actions
huge size" and currently
all Social Democrats, Mensheviks and heroes of the IP International
tional, from the wonderful words of the program-mac-
have just slipped into the swamp of the meanest
betrayal and practical agreement
with the bourgeoisie against the revolutionary com-
the communist vanguard of the working class.

Communist International post-
saw the solution to this problem as the closest
another goal, before the proletariat of all
peace, and the Russian workers, having driven out the capital
sheets and landowners, began to practice
its technical implementation.

Having started the practical implementation
goal of communistth construction,
Russian worker proved the possibility of
corresponding conditions of correct
solutions to this problem.

But since the corresponding conditions
the face did not turn out to be mainly
after the defeat of the communists in Germany,
Hungary and other countries, as well as civil
war and intervention, which led to complete
impoverishment of the country and hunger, then Russian
the working class had to force
march retreated to a pre-prepared
new positions. He has to organize again
‘call your ranks, find reinforcements
and prepare, taking into account the complexity of the me-
national situation, to the new present-
captivity, along a longer road. He must
wives developed a new strategic plan,
how immediately, step by step, he must
conquered trench after trench from his pro-
enemy, at the same time organizationally
strengthen the gained positions.

Communist revolutionary movements
working class in Germany, Czechoslovakia
Wakia, Italy, have proven the possibility,
again, given the appropriate conditions
vision, the seizure of power by storm of the worker
class, and in Hungary the working class is successful
moose even for a short period of time to seize power
into your own hands:

What is the reason for the defeat of the communists
in the named countries, what are the
“appropriate conditions” for victory?

s

Here we need to distinguish two questions. Per-
vyy’—this is a question of the praise of political
power and 0b establishment = pro-
letharial..

The seizure of power by the proletariat is due to
the degree of his spontaneous revolutionary energy
gy, the clarity of his class political
consciousness, resistance and activity
hostile classes, at least not
tralization towards the proletariat
urban petty bourgeoisie and especially
of the "middle peasantry" - one
in a word, factors unfolding on
arena of class battles. Defeat of the worker
class in a fight with their class enemies
gami is explained by flabbiness, lack
revolutionary energy in organizations 2 and
25th International, small in number
and weak organization of the communist

partyth, the strength and organization of the enemy
classes desired by the proletariat.

Another question is the question of long-term
retaining power in one's hands, about quickly
of the organization of the economic foundation
for the dictatorship of the proletariat, about the depth and
the scope of the socialist planned-ho-
economic construction in transition
period to communism. In short, this

the question of the speed of overcoming the inevitable no.

during an economic-revolutionary crisis
period of decline and disruption of production
driving forces and the time of change of this
period, period of recovery, productive
forces and their organization on the basis of planned
new socialist production.
Communist. construction is pre-
First of all, the task of organized planning
measured rise in productive forces
society and bringing them to the highest level
development possible at a given level
technology. .
The dictatorship of the proletariat is only
a powerful lever for organization
development of productive forces 90 high-

level, based on a systematic 60= +L G.

cialistic economy.
It is quite obvious that based on the length

» significantly declining productive forces,
№1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. 53

basis of “negative” extended re-
no communist production
`The farm cannot be built. For a long
significant decline in productive forces
there is such a strong decrease in level
existence of the working masses, which pro-
the letariat is declassed, loses its enthu-
ziasm, creative activity and disorganization
zuzyatsya.

A period of degeneration (decay) begins and
it is necessary to partially restore,
elk, already obsolete forms of capital economy
talistic world, go around. Pro-
the duration of the “transition period” increased
decreases, the difficulties of construction increase
government, the economic foundation of the dictatorship
tours become less durable.

In the first immediate and short-term
period of seizure of power, 1 ›ongoing
and deepening melting n]. ›productive
forces are masked by smoldering and use
calling is valuableties accumulated and not yet
wasted in the preceding period.

Upon depletion of reserves, the more

force reveals ‘the indicated counter-
speech ‘between the fall of productive
forces and tasks of communist construction
government

“<”. Build ; communist society
this means organizing the economy of re-
commercial capitalist countries on commu-
nistic principles. Communism means
systematic ‘classless comradely’
organization of production, where everything is taken into account
the needs of this public collection
tiva and accordingly taken into account the needs
production and distribution have been organized
laziness.

In a communist society not only
each individual enterprise must be
scientifically organized, i.e. using
all the data of science and technology, but also all the
the economy as a whole, i.e. set of pre-
acceptance, should form a harmonious system
mu production, like watchmaking
chanism. ,

Each individual branch of production
each individual enterprise in this system

system must be correlated with each
another industry, every other enterprise
TiU.

Textile production, say, should
be (in relation to not only the need-
in tissues, but also in the amount of coal
or electrical energy, which can
be provided to the textile industry
production, in relation to the amount of cotton
ka, flax and other raw materials, which
which may be provided to him. Elek-
technical industry again
must be correlative, except for the requirements
ity of industry and individuals, therefore
same production (coal, metallurgical
industry, glass, etc.

Finally, one or another combination of workers
elements in the production process given
system, division of labor, method of organizing
nization of producers in this system
must be relative to the height of the technical
ki and degrees of productive consciousness
participants.

Only then will the system work without
interruptions This is what is called
a unified economic plan and scientific
planomernaya organization of production.

Consequently, the construction of a communist
sky. society requires from its organiza-
ditch, i.e., at least from the advanced
layer of the working class, a clear understanding that
is a scientifically planned organization of mi-
ry economy, and what ways and mediations
existing links lead to implementation
this goal. The working class must know
what technical basis should be
communist society is set up and
master this foundation scientifically. Already in the present
Currently, technology has the following basis:
this is electricity, and communist
the economy, from a technical point of view, can
be characterized as electrified
farmed economy. In the same way, science, drill-
zhuaz world, in pursuit of research on-
the best ways to achieve the greatest
the degree of exploitation of workers has developed,
completely suitable scientifically constructed
system for this purpose. This is the so-called

54

re.

th

№1 (6)

toylorism and its varieties and methods
determination of production qualities of work
psychotechnics nerd. This new industry
science from the point of view of the working class, pre-
poses nothing more than scientific development
tackling the question of the correlation of technology
logical organization of the system to the organization
labor within this system. She uses
data from sciences: biology, psychology, physio-
logic for the scientifically stated ‘at the kalit-
lism of labor exploitation. Some-
ry elements of Taylorism associated with ra-
nationalization of labor, can be used
Vans even under socialism.

This science of the best exploitation of the
Bottom force in the interests of capital's profit
sheets, the worker must “put it on
legs", use for organizational purposes
communist economy, turning it
into the science ‘about the correlation of technical
organizing systems to organizing people
in the communist production system 1).

This will be a new science, the doctrine of scientific
organizing cooperation between people in pro-
process of production (and distribution) or
economics of a communist society.

Finally, the third conditione necessary for
organization of the system - communist
production, this is the ratio of production
leadership consciousness of participants to technical
ke and the economy of the system.

On production consciousness, let's say
stupid, downtrodden feudal peasant,
with his religious prejudices, some
thinking, of course, no communication
you cannot build a static society.

Construction of the communist system
economy is an organizational task, everything
of a scientific nature.

The orderliness of the economic process,
in the absence of external coercion over

1) In other layers, how the organization should be
cooperation (and distribution) in the planned
measured social production process
everything to get the most pro-
products at the lowest technical costs,
the least amount of time and the least amount of effort
manufacturer's confusion.

by its participants, requires from its active
organizers have a completely clear understanding
the whole process, in general, the connections of all its parts
between each other and with the whole, private connections
tasks of the manufacturer with the tasks of the entire system
system, coordination of personal interest with
social, understanding the dependence of one’s
his personal well-being from production
performance of the entire system, mastery,
at least in an elementary form, knowledge of the basics
technology and economics of the system; finally, we-
extreme self-sacrifice and tension
participation in a long-term preparatory organization
construction period. Produced
working class leadership ideology
is the basic premise without
which cannot be organized
numbered communist economy, non-
despite the complete preparedness of the co-
temporary stage of development of capitalism in
advanced countries, both technically and
economically, to ‘transition to this higher
phase of economic organization.

The question of the failure that befell commu-
nistic movements of the proletariat in Za-
Western Europe, in connection with the planned new
tactics, was engaged in the 3rd Congress of the Comin-
thorn.

Comrade Zinoviev in his article in No. 18 “Commui.

nisticInternational" defines
position as follows: “Social-de-
mokrota supporters of the second and two-sex
Wine International, for two years,
1919-1921 'tg., made more dependent on them
to help the bourgeoisie consolidate
rally (unite). In those times when
the bourgeoisie was helpless in those months
when the leaders of the capitalists were shaking, as if in
fever, when the bourgeois parties waver

They were fighting like epics, at this time they were very _

much, almost everything depended on subjective
factor: on the degree of readiness of the worker
sneeze from revolutionary will and determination
their parties and trade unions.

At this decisive time, the Social Democrats."

© and 21" Internationals everything they had,
thrown into the balance of the bourgeoisie. That's why-

mu. and the 3rd Congress of the Comintern had to establish

_ ыы

t

%

№1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY.

55

pour in your tactics in relation to
new circumstances."

The new tactics of the Comintern are characterized by
necessitated by the need to penetrate commercial
parties in the midst of the proletarian masses, participation
in the everyday struggle of the proletariat, in all
his organizations.

It consists in the tireless propagation
ideas of the proletarian dictatorship and
the war of the majority of the working class on
side of communism, in a systematic non-
oriented training of workers for
upcoming battles, in conquest before
of all trade unions and the creation of strong sa-
independent communist parties,
cleared of centrists, oshtortuniets and
semi-centrists, in the work of creating non-
legal organizations and persistent work
work on arming the masses.

With the aim of splitting off the broad masses of workers
class from the leaders of the 2nd and 21st International
catchers, on the basis of the daily struggle of workers
what class is against the advances of capital,
on the basis of the struggle against militarism and for
international solidarity in defense
Soviet Russia, Congress recommended in
practical actions to create a single
working front, transferring once started

fight, where the conditions are right,

to the highest stage, i.e. to seize power.
As an intermediate phase to dictatorshipre pro-
letharial 3rd Congress considered it possible to support
hold worker education slogan
government. I

Itah, the conquest of the majority, workers on,
side of communism, instilling the will to
misfortune and power, propaganda of proletarian ideas
dictatorship - all this on the basis of close-
our communication with the masses in their everyday
the fight against the advance of capital
represents the essence of the new tactics of the Comintern.

Spontaneous revolutionary impulse of the masses
to seize and retain power, with con-
consolidated (united) and political

The strongly strengthened bourgeoisie is no longer sufficient

exactly. A stubborn, persistent will to win
de, an organized offensive, a clear agreement
knowledge of the goals of communism are in

standing (moment necessary conditions
victory.

All this taken together means that
production of productive consciousness
what class for communist construction
government

The "politics" of the working class, as well as others
classes fighting it must be determined
economics.

Especially for the working class "yu-
lytics" should represent a "concentrated
bathroom economy."

This means that, along with all others
forms of organization and struggle of the worker
class, the order of the day should be
influenced by ideological and practical
preparation in the direction of general scientific re-
fulfilling the task of communist construction
stva.

The bourgeoisie of the whole world has complete
to the extent of its class production idea-
ology, covering all its ideological
Chinese norms.

This is the ideology of private property and
"commodity fetishism".

It is not complex and partial.

The proletariat, even of such advanced countries,
like Germany, possessing a fighting temperament
including sufficient political maturity,
at the same time deprived to a significant extent
class production consciousness.

Scheidemannism and opportunism in work
how movement means not only weakness
revolutionary thought of the proletariat, but also
the absence of class production in it
nogo consciousness. These are people of patchwork thoughts,
partial solutions.

Because socialism is like the biggest
goal bothe struggle of the proletariat, was not put into
the order of today, insofar as
giving the formation of production co-
knowledge was not specifically advanced and not
decided.

The daily struggle of workers in itself
what class, its participation in trade unions,
since they practically do not implement
their main goal is to be a school of socialism,
atmosphere of opportunistic parliament-

56

Go EaE

№1 (6)

social-democratic depravity the majority, not at all
contributed, but rather, on the contrary, hindered
formation of a holistic production
consciousness.

All daily struggles came down to cha-
stic demands of the working class, like
consumer as a seller of labor,
hostilely opposing in the process
production to the capitalist and interested
focused primarily on improving one’s
his financial situation.

The interests of this industry,
even the company where he worked,
only indirectly connected him with his mother
material well-being. The worker is not
is the organizer of production and non-
not directly responsible for his kingdom
great job. Communication © has been established as a whole
appears in his mind practically, only
during mass strikes from as long as
branches, what does this whole personified
them in the capitalist class, acts as
a force hostile to him.

All these circumstances are extremely favorable
attesting to the exacerbation of his class hatred
waiting for the growth of his revolutionary energy and
consciousness, of course, are unfavorable for development
development of production consciousness.

Only Marxism, as a revolutionary system
system, will provide a basis for registration of production
consciousness, for the development of integral
tedious ‘materialistic proletarian
worldview. But the very understanding of the mark
sism should not be patchwork, but holistic
nom; Marxism must also understand-
all-scientific.

In an article dedicated to twenty-five years
after Marx’s death, Plekhanov wrote: “Mark
sism represents the whole and harmonious
materialistic worldview, and who
loses sight of this integrity of him, as
materialistic teaching, I haveof his
her goal is not only history, but also
and nature, he risks very bad’ in
take even those individual aspects of this
teachings that for some reason attract
themselves attention and enjoy its recognition.

A holistic worldview is different
from eclectic (patchwork), which decides
Indeed, each side of it is the closest
connected in a way with everyone else, and that
therefore ‘cannot be ‘removed from with impunity’
him one of them and replace it in total -
the essence of glances torn from another world-
contemplation. Nothing but confusion of understanding
ty, it won’t work out from here.”

Another of the overly zealous comrades
Moonists, accustomed to thinking about building
movement of communism according to the conductor's pas-
office and at the direction of the leadership,
when reading these lines you may ask yourself
question: “Well, does that mean you have to wait and not
try to seize power while in re-
This layer of the proletariat will not develop “all
scientifically based production co-
knowledge? After all, this will require, maybe...
maybe decades."

There is an obvious misunderstanding in this question.
change. Communist construction and
dictatorship of the proletariat concept, although with 0-
relative, but do not cover each other.
The seizure of power by the proletariat will be prod-
tod in time, objectively established
at this point in the economic and political
the technical situation, the degree of its revolutionary
this impulse.

The world proletariat must be
207106 60 at any given moment
renew your dictatorship.

But the degree of strength of this dictatorship,
consolidation of the victory, ‘duration-
pain and pain of the transition period
under the dictatorship of the proletariat, the degree of ideological
logical resistance to decomposing
influence of petty-bourgeois elements and influence
nium of bourgeois specialists, finally bringing together
to a minimum destructive for production
the costs of the revolution will entirely be

are determined by the degree of production co-

working class knowledge.
And under the dictatorship of the proletariat, like ours

in Soviet Russia, the same queue->

the task must be put forward
new plan.The degree of development of production
No. 1 (6) ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. 57

of the Russian working class into the working class. "Without being a prophet, no one
to a large extent, apart from others, some of us cannot say exactly how many
tori, the boundaries of our territory will be determined or years will pass until the first new
captivity. victory of the proletarian revolution, in the first

Output in the ‘working class’ is produced from those large countries that determine
strong class consciousness is a precursor to the world revolution. But we are one
quite a long process and ‘maybe we know firmly and a new accounting of economic
be resolved only by the collective efforts of Europe at the 3rd Congress of us yet
yami of his avant-garde with a clear understanding - and once again convinced of this: the revolution is not
understanding the importance of the goal. finished; not ‘so far away time, when

To arouse interest among the advanced workers, new battles will begin that will shake
„. To the questions posed above, Europe and the whole world are much more than

the goal of this steel. Illuminate © uka - all previous bosh combined”:

„ from the above point of view, the most important is the strike of 500,000 metalworkers in Germany,
important and significant issues of world con- recent strike of 800,000 railway workers
the economy and economy of Russia will be a task, the recent strike of a million miners in
a number of articles from the economic department of our England, strike. movement in America

magazine. ke, - all these are harbingers of the future
The economy of the capitalist world of wasteful battles.
works in the direction of the assigned pro- However, since “we failed

goal tariat. At the cost of brutal blows to defeat capitalism in the immediate
the working class, who are threatened with death from lack of combat, so there is a whole period ahead
workers for tens of millions of workers in preparatory work, approximately,
and exhaustion from malnutrition among broad layers, which our party faced after the
remaining in production, it forces the battles of 1905-1906 before the start of the new
working class inson-in-law in his own hands of organizing the rise. Of course, it shouldn't be
tion of the world economy. that on an international scale the matter should
13 million unemployed (with 40 families) took a whole decade to

Even now they are victims, which continued on a Russian scale.”
the ongoing global industrial crisis. (From Zinoviev’s speech at the HT Congress of the R.K.P.)
Along the entire line, through lockouts and closures. This period will inevitably have to pro-
* factories, there is an offensive of capital to flow under the sign of the cultural revolution in
lowering wages and lengthening the working class, forming, at the new

working day. holistic proletarian worldview,
In response, there is a counter wave of strikes against his industrial class self-identity.
in England, Germany, America. knowledge.
After the Washington Conference in the WHO, this is a guarantee of the strength of his victory.

spirit smelled of a new world war, and this and the depths of the communist reorganization
Every intelligent person begins to understand the series.
! Zander.

Projects and experiences of socialization of the national economy
stva in Germany.

>
The word “socialization” in Germany was used only after the war, together with the revolution
of recent origin. As commonly used, November 9, 1918. In the past,

a striking, current term, it was born while talking about those social transformations
58

RO

№1 (6)

which are necessary for the transformation
capitalist system in the socialist
English, German socialists did not use
the word “socialization”, and the word “socialization”
-nie". The ultimate ideal of a hostel, restful
gosya, on a completely socialized economy,
drawn by theorists of German social
democracy, as the “kingdom of freedom” (expressed
Engels’s movement), i.e. like a free union
people who are neither in production
process, nor in any other areas
social life and activities are not necessary
are expected through measures of external coercion or
coercion and therefore do without force
some government organization. State
ism is a tool of class dictatorship, a tool
dominance of oneclass over another natural
is literally dying off, being given up as unnecessary
to the archive of historical antiquities, as
how class contradictions disappear
within society, the rich and the poor disappear
people, capitalists and proletarians, and remain
only free people, workers in the field
material and spiritual culture, have
sharing the same rights to their products
working together, having gone through the same
school of public education and training
Research Institute
Having eliminated the fruitless waste of labor,
associated with the 'anarchy' of capitalist
production, freeing society from the need
the need to maintain huge armies,
spend colossal amounts of money to arm them
tion, destroying parasitic classes and
expensive internal security apparatus
his “order” and “security” in the guards,
socialism, the theory went, is so
increases the productivity of public
economy that any control over consumption
blaming citizens will become unnecessary. There won't be
the need to regulate consumption or
in the form of “rations”, nor in the form of wages
boards calculated according to one or another pro-
living standard, but everyone will get the opportunity
the ability to freely satisfy all your
actual needs. With ‘another here-
rons, freeing labor from forced labor
character, socialism will thereby transform him

from heavy duty to natural
phenomenon inherent in every healthy person
age of need, and therefore here too will disappear
the need for artificial inducement measures
or encouragement and everyone will be able to
provide freedom to work according to
his strengths and abilities.

“From each according to his ability, to each according to his ability
his needs"—this is the motto that,
according to Marx, will write socialist

‚society on. your banner. But Marche

was fully aware, of course, that this ideal
the order of things cannot be established
immediately, immediately after
the letarian revolution will break the power of capital.
Marx foresaw the need for a known
preparatory period, during which
Rogo socialist power will have tot

‚ measures of state coercion re-

regulate both the consumption of citizens and
production process These are the measures created
providing a bridge between existing, un-
derived from capitalism, forms of eco-
nomic organization and completely “generalized”
imposed" by the economy of a distant ideal, here
these plans for economic construction
in the “transition period” and mean co-

temporary Germans, when they talk about “social

tion" of the national economy.

Pre-war socialist theory made
I've done very little in this area. How
the founders of scientific socialism, and their
students and successors considered it inappropriate
different and impossible to prepare projects
transformation of the capitalist world into
socialist, so to speak, for future use, in the era
xy, when the transfer of power into the hands of the social
the static party still seemed very
captive, and the conditions under which he will become
possible, lying outside the exact history
ical foresight.

Crash at the front and related
revolution, which handed the helm of the state
new ship to the socialists, immediately delivered
to the fullest extent the task of “socialization” before
the new German government.

Just a few days after the transfer
company November 9, 1918 body of independent

PS

o - YES

t"

with

\: ECHEN

yy
IRINA OTHER, CHI

.
*
:
r:
1

.
">I

S... 3 IYA
4

‹
,

№1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY.

59

Social Democrats "Etey" wrote: "From
government we demand first of all clear
of the action program. Government
must state what reforms it intends
carry out immediately. There are a number of measures
about which there can be no long debate,
which must now be decreed
same. And here in the first place belongs
socialization of the national economy.
The interests of the national economy require
getting down to business immediately. Relative-
but the possibility of transferring it to the public
property monopolized capital
scrap industry among people
there is no doubt among those in the know.”
But not only independent social
sts who in those days were very determinedb
decisively and revolutionary, insisted on
the need to accelerate socialization
at a steady pace. You have the same point of view
right-wing socialists - Scheidema - also said
Novets. So, in their newspaper “Uguytfz”,

shey since the proclamation of the republic.

organ of the ruling party, November 24, 1918
made an ardent appeal for socialization
tions Professor Robert Vilbrant. He'do-
denied that the matter of socialization cannot be abandoned
put before the convening of the national assembly
niya and proposed to immediately issue a decree,
declaring "national property"
all means of production, i.e. all things
conditions of production in a broad sense
words, starting with the extraction and processing of raw materials
rya and ending with transport and distribution
niem."

Professor Wilbrant is far from
the only representative of the official
university science, who spoke in favor of
immediate socialization.

In the same direction from the first days
revolutions carried out energetic propaganda
Professor Lederer, Privatdozent Otto Neu-
Rath, Professor Ballod and many others, to
the choir of socialization professors joins
a number of engineers, technicians and other si-
cialists: Popper-Lynkeus, Beck, Alphonse
Gortek. Mentioned here are only a few of the most
more prominent authors. Full list of non-

German non-party intellectuals, highly
published in print in favor of socialization,
would make up a long column with many
dozens of names, and the works published by them
denia, despite the lightness of most
Most of them represent a total of
very impressive in its diversity
I'm packing a pile of books. It goes without saying
that in the party socialist environment
"socialization" was discussed and preached
was even more energetic. Kautsky,

‚ Hilferding, Otto Bauer, Bernstein and mi.

others have devoted a whole series to this issue
books and articles. As a result, quickly accumulated
I drank a very extensive literature, it was not easy
foreseeable, due to the extreme diversity
variety of approaches to the issue and ways to
solutions.

The term “socialization” is used
personal German authors in the rah-
personal meaning; we find here everything about
intermediate steps and shades lying

`between real “socialization” and that

some small reforms that are quite
compatible with the capitalist system and
only with great effort they can. be from-
referred to as measures of the “transition period”. Not-
which the authors try to separate all the pro-
socialization projects into two main groups
py: projects “full” and. "partial" social
lization (“VoPzolaiaegatate” and “Teizota-
Isegyp?"). But these names are also used
are in different senses and therefore by no means
are not any accurate characterization
ristics. A clearer classification
we will establish if we divide the German pro-
socialization projects for the following two groups
py: firstly, projects that put forward non-
the need to immediately subordinate the state
national regulation the entire set
national economy as a whole, and thus
thus forming the basis for the transformation
“the idea of a unified planned economy” (“P1a-
jester zeva >); secondly, projects recommended.
those who want to begin socialization with a separate
ny industries, & specifically with
those who are most prepared for re-
gates that are most “ripe” for him (e.g.
60

G OR.

No. 1 (6)

united in the hands of a few capitalists,
syndicated, "restored, etc.), and
only little by little, as they mature,
transferred to the state department
and other ‘areas of industry.
Advocates of socialization alone
“mature” industries and enterprises, indicated
they usually call for the fact that only with such
restriction of actual nationalization
tion, i.e. complete elimination of the capitalist
entrepreneur, feasible without frustration
quality of the production apparatus and aggravation
blazing economic ruin. Supporters
a single plan, indicate the impossibility
combating severe economic consequences
war without regulation of all na-
family economy as a whole. As for
economic disorganization threatening
country with too wide a scope
government, then, in their opinion, for pre-
the disgust of this dangerousit's better to go to the front
in time to leave the capitalists in place,
subordinating them to some state
control rather than in interests. re-depth
forms sacrificed its breadth and released
from the hands of the state, the steering wheel that controls the progress
people's economic ship. So
how German projects reveal
a kind of inverse proportionality
between the breadth and depth of their social
congested plans: they are all the more “complete” in the depths
bin than “partially” in width and vice versa.
This peculiar law is explained as
we just saw, increased care
authors about being designed by them
reforms did not undermine economic life
countries, did not lead to at least temporary
decline in productive forces.
“Carrying out socialization in Germany”,
Hilferding spoke in Nuremberg
Congress of German Trade Unions in the summer of 1919
year, “assumes that the transformation will
completed without disrupting the progress of production
leadership We can't afford ex-
experiments that were carried out in the country
nah with a less developed industry, because
in Germany this would be equivalent to
cold death of the masses. Socialization

nopoly

tion should not be accompanied by restrictions
labor productivity or reduction
production sizes. There shouldn't be
none of the forces that
needed to maintain production. Us
it is imperative that management
tel of enterprises, trade and technical
the agents remained in their places.” It is necessary
note that at that time Hilferding, as
and the majority of independents, occupied in
politics, a very left-wing position and considered it
fighting the dictatorship is the immediate task
proletarian movement. But also on condition
political\sovereignty of the proletariat
the maximum limit of achievements,
in the near future, Rudol-
Fu Hilferding imagined socialization
some “mature” industries
people holding a commanding position
in the national economic system. "Before
everything,” he said in the same speech, “generally
industries that are subject to change are extractingno
raw materials and energy, i.e. coal, iron
potash mines, large metallurgical
sky and iron industry,
electrical industry. All this -
industries that are largely
their part have already taken on the character of mono-
and therefore economically
ripe for socialization. Attaching here
some other productions, I manufacture-
current consumer goods (current
stylish, shoe factories), Hilferding
hopes to concentrate in this way
in the hands of society, all those positions that
are the basis of economic power and,
on the other hand, they play the most important
role in satisfying mass needs
needs. “In other areas of production
industries must remain for now, capitalist
relations and it is only necessary to
take measures to promote their maturation
for socialism."

The stated views of Hilferding, character-
thorns for theories that promote social
lization of “ripe branches of production”.

The most prominent supporters of social
tion covering all sectors at once
|

No. 1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. 61'

national economy are: organizer
German military economy, Walter Ha-
tonau, who expressed his views over several
to the years before the revolution in a number of works,
his associate Möllendorff, famous from 0-
Social Democrat Otto Bauer, privatdozent
Otto Neurath, revolutionary minister of state
gift farm, Vissel.
"Socialization of mature enterprises" -
writes Otto Neurath: “as could not be more
Lek from our idea. After all, with this one. points
vision worked a lot for the benefit ©0-
socialization of Tsarist Russia or country
Rentier, France." "Socialization is always
covers the whole, it is always “complete”
socialization" (VoPsoada1egite), independent
depends on whether it penetrates deep or
content with superficial changes

yami." Otto Neurath created a very slender

and in many ways an interesting project
socialization, practical disadvantages of co-
which lies precisely in its excessive
no theoretical harmonioussti. Neurath pre-
proposes to immediately switch from barter
economy to natural, state
organized distribution, which, in turn,
Of course, it is impossible without deep economic
new crisis. We'll stop a little
in more detail on a similar, but more clever
the real Wissel-Möllendorff project,
more, what, exactly, around this last
there was a particularly heated debate in the first
period of the German revolution.

Called to the post of Minister of the People
economy at the very beginning of the revolution, Vis-
village, choosing as his closest employee
Möllendorf, developed a plan based on
which laid down “self-governing
xia organizations" covering" more and more
or less significant production groups
stavva, All major sectors of national economy
farms, such as agriculture, chemical
some industry, metalworking
industry, etc. are being organized
into “economic unions” (\At the throat -
ban4e), composed on parity beginnings
lah of workers and entrepreneurs, represented

trade stavigels, consumer representatives
soldiers and government commissioners.
Each "economic union" is dismembered
by profession, for individual “economic-
trade unions (\Up4zevaIv-
she) built on the same namals.
Household. and economic - professional
national unions have as their task
take care of the supply of cheese enterprises
materials, make improvements in
labor process, leading to lower prices,
in particular, to promote the normalization
tions and production typifications.

They further regulate the exchange, trying
throw away unnecessary intermediate components
Nya and create the most rational
national economic point of view methods
circulation of products. On their responsibilities
is the resolution of social conflicts,
arising in the process of labor, by establishing
updating tariff agreements and improving
working conditions. Finally they produce
professional scientific research and
care about the development of professional education
calling.

Along with professional and economic
we are self-governingcurrent corporate plan
Wissel-Möllendorff, provides for the
itinerant territorial associations
nia. These latter consist of factory-made
Vodsk workers' councils (Vefmeizga%e),
district workers and district enterprises
motherly advice and, finally, to all German mothers -
sky worker and pre-Inimalel s0-
veta, (VelsVzatieTseg un Ve ischepvet-
tat:

Both types of self-governing organizations
culminate in a kind of economic
parliament, which is called (Be1-
sVz\ and zeVa%zga4) “All-German master-
government council" and consists of elected representatives
economic unions, as well as from all-ger-
Mansky worker and entrepreneurial
advice. Moreover, it includes representatives
representatives of consumers, trade and science, heads
significant according to the representation of interested
ny parties, the government. Veez\ and -
th

sVa{zgaf is the highest managerial
economic body of the country, the body
according to the planned tasks of which work
Economic unions are melting.

Wissel's project was more than welcome
good technique, both left and right.
On the left, he was treated like a disguised
an attempt to perpetuate the privileges of capital.
Thus, Rudolf Hilferding in the quoted
already above the speech, among other things, he said:

"Visselevsky Union Planned Economy
has only this in common with socialization that
it supposedly must be systematic. C0-
there is no trace of socialism here and the whole plan is
directed to retain the pre-
the recipient of his function as a capitalist. I
I don’t see it even coming close
to socialism, but only an offspring of the doctrine of
harmony between capital and labor and the environment
the ability to alleviate capitalism's difficulties
who stood in his way. The project is aimed
is committed to legislatively facilitating
to create capitalist syndicates

Vis-
"For the right-wing socialists—his comrades in
ministry. In one flying leaf, spread
extensively by the central committee of the socialist
dem. the games, by the way, were printed
such lines: “This forced social
tion on oproduction sectors does not mean
only perpetuation, but also a colossal increase
revealing the power of the ‘entrepreneur... We want
tim socialization. And not falsified
bathroom surrogate. Our battle cry is
sit: socialism versus planned economy."

However, in reality the “battle cry” of those standing
in power the socialists majority read:
no socialism, no planned economy.
The only feeling that guided them
economic policy was the fear of
ed to intervene in any decisive way
influence into the economic life of the country.
Socialize `shattered by the war, gained
changed by the colossal indemnities of An-
Tants, the national economy seemed chi-
sheer madness. “We have nothing to socialize
"except for debts." You can't even imagine

more inappropriate time for social
tion than the “present”, into one bare solidity
the socialist leaders of the first revolution
republican government
Germany. And all their efforts were directed
to somehow gain time,
deceive the popular movement, delay the practical
tic attack on socialization to more
happy times, leaving capitalism
cope with the consequences of failure
WARS. ]

In general, these efforts were crowned
complete success. True, I completely avoided it
socialization failed. Already the first congress
workers' and soldiers' deputies, who assembled
in December 1918, decisively
I wanted an immediate attack on socialization
prepared for this enterprise, in
features of mining. And the fire
which soon began 'then a menacing movement
the miners were forced to rush
adopt a law on the socialization of coal companies
drink. The matter was limited to this industry,
where socialization was not carried out
in a radical style, not with the elimination of
pitalists, & in the spirit of the Vissel project:
in the coal industry was created
"self-governing" corporation from
workers, entrepreneurs and
consumers.

The results of this experiment exceeded the most
pessimistic expectations. Consumers and
workers not onlyinterfered with business
government machinations, but were their ineffective
reliable support. Capitalists without
divinely inflated coal prices as the
ry passivity of delegates from consumer
tel and with the active assistance of interested
dedicated workers who, at every
increasing the selling price of coal received c0-
responsible increase in wages.

When a scandalous economic policy
as a “socialized” coal syndicate
became the subject of a special parla-
police investigation, Steigor Werner, '
representative of the union of technical employees
and clerks, with commendable frankness

and? No. 1 (6) ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. 63

} _ explained the mysterious at first glance pyu-
leading representatives of the proletariat. Neither
which of the representatives of workers and employees
workers sitting in the central coal
union,” he said, “lacks courage,
to lose under current political conditions
we are against the price increase associated with
increase in fees. We are representatives of co-
the use of workers and employees of coal horses.
Our shirts are closer to our bodies. We
must, if we do not want to be dis-
tormented when we return home, naked-
to fight for high coal prices. KNo. sorry-
research, interests of entrepreneurs and workers
on the issue of prices they are the same. You can be
whatever you want (a socialist, you can be
Convinced that the current price increase
there is a huge one. a misfortune for the people, but -
what can you do when you appear before
representative of workers of the local district,
one has to submit to local circumstances
‹tvam: your own shirt is closer to the body (wall-
graphic report of the meeting of April 30
1920).

The Socialization Commission, having investigated
the situation in the coal industry, accepted
Walter Rathenau's project, significantly strengthening
effective control of the state over the activities
‚ power of the coal barons, but the new
`the bill is hopelessly stuck in the middle-
exact authorities and no substantive
{> He didn’t make any improvements to things. This one
natural experience of socialization delivered
on any wide scaleka-
There are two things in the hall: the absence of the majority of the Internet,
° German Social Democrats of all kinds
_ desire to spend any amount of time in practice
° Consistent and thoughtful policy
’ socialization, on the one hand, and on the other
_ Parties, insufficient preparedness
| Broad Mayes of the German proletariat to
| leadership work in industry,
organized according to the type of self-governing
industrial unions, where they have secured in advance

5,

in

about their class enemies of the proletariat.

s eo the strongest economic pressure _

It is clear that under such conditions, for
successful functioning of new forms
production, the leadership role of the state
government must be strengthened, the role of capital
the sheet is limited as much as possible, and together
With this, a situation has been created, gradually preparing
driving workers to higher and freer
bodied forms of socialized industry
laziness. Interesting project
These requirements were developed by engineer Al-
von Horten.

As we saw above, and supporters
“full”, and supporters of “partial” social
nations are very concerned about preserving
thread for socialized industry
all available organizational forces to
with the new setting of the case, was not constrained
initiative, production managers.

But about what “initiative”, about what organi-
we are talking about nizator strengths and talents,
asks Guertin. If we are talking about tez
technical organizers of production and communication
exchange, then their initiative should not be
only preserved, but also expanded with co-
cialization, it must be released
from the shackles that shackle her during the
in pitalism, subordination to private interest
entrepreneur. After all, an increase in income
of the enterprise, this highest commandment,
to which the organ- is currently subordinated
the lowest forces of industry, far

_does not always require rationalization of production

tva, & quite often it is much easier and
easier to achieve by raising prices,
created by a reduction in output. To this
goals and strives for the usual syndi-
Kalov, this is the direction the fan works
Taziasenior financial executives
modern industry. Initiative
financial type organizers cannot
and should not be preserved, with social
tions. On the contrary, the geniuses and talents of this eti-
must be carefully insulated
isolated from any opportunity to influence,
socialized production. Due to
this basic directive, the general management plan
64 MOUNTAINS №1 (6)
phenomena are outlined by Horten following more and more new
way: socialized production of enterprises and industries.

organized according to the type of shareholder campaign
nii, with only one significant difference,
that the general meeting of shareholders and financial
The new directorate is replaced by the state. Observe
dative advice is formed on parity
based on representatives of workers and employees
residents, on the one hand, representatives of the
states, on the other. As for the technical
checial and ‘commercial directorate’, then she
is retained in its entirety, with the same powers
yami, with the same form of responsibility and sub-
reporting, with the same types of payment and for-
interests in enterprises, what
practiced in joint stock companies. But
now the basis of all kinds of incentives,
bonuses and bonuses are not increased
profitability of the enterprise, and its rationalization
ation, increase in labor productivity
and cost reduction. Along with
technical and commercial directorate created
a third “administration unit” is given
strative apparatus: social directorate,
‘consisting exclusively of representatives
lei workers. E

Gorten further proves that, with the requirement
maximum, rationalization of production
industry is not compatible with private social
Zation of individual “mature” economic sectors
neither the horizontally dissected “pol-
naya" socialization in the style of Wissel or
Neyrata. The state economy should
form a single harmonious whole, built
new type of combined trusts,
combining the extraction and processing of raw materials
under general technical management. By
Horten's calculus would be enough
will concentrate for the first timeb in the hands of
states 10-15% of production in coal-
noy, metallurgical, metalworking
cabbage soup and the cement-construction industry
ness. Such a state trust is
would give sufficient power for
to have a healing effect on
market, paralyze the machinations of capitalism
ical unions and, gradually expanding,
draw in through natural growth

Gorten's project is interesting, by the way,
and in the sense that he was partly
tested in practice, and the results are
turned out to be quite satisfactory. First
successful experiments were made by Horten
during the war, at some enterprises
in the area reoccupied by the German war-
scam. But, of course, in a military situation
new invasion. it was impossible to think ©
sufficient breadth of experience, not quite
its rational formulation. After the war
Horten's plan was applied to some pre-
enterprises located in the region of France
Tsuz occupation. It certainly wasn't
that powerful combined state-
ny trust that Gorten dreamed of. Leader
papipalistic trusts of Germany, Gu-
Go Stinnes, who very quickly managed to
sharpen the economic
dictatorship, of course, would not allow
unity into a state trust of the best
enterprises occupying the central metro
hundred in the main branches of German industry
thinking. New formulation of the case covering
The group was formed more or less by accident
abusive enterprises and no health-

influencing the national economy 8834

as a whole did not have. But within each
a successful enterprise, the system turned out to be
extremely successful, so successful,
which caused serious concern among
French capitalists, in the area of influence
which she acted on. According to
"Wag\uytz" against government agencies
acceptance of the area of occupation international
capital organized a whole campaign, as a result
which the Entente, citing damage,
caused to French capitalists and
based on some paragraph of Versailles.
agreement, demanded from the Germanabout great
translation statements corresponding to ‘pre-
acceptance of ordinary private capitalist

Chinese beginnings. This requirement, of course, "&

was immediately carried out.
In Germany, with the prevailing situation there,
in relation to forces, no serious projects

2*

No.

No. 1 (6) ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. 65
socialization in the near future may not acquire the most ac-

have a chance of being realized - there are too many
com great power of private capitalist
organizations. If the new economic
politics will be successful if private
entrepreneurship will get enough
widespread development, Alphonse Gore's system

tual meaning.
V. Bazarov."
Editor's note:

Comrade Bazarov's article is informational
character. In view of the importance of the issue of social
tions, the editors intend to further
publish a number of articles on this topic.

Unquestionable praise for capitalism.

In his speech justifying the adoption
new economic policy Comrade Lenin s0-
He made it absolutely clear that by opening
capitalism has a crack, it will have to open and
door. And not just one, and he will trample not only
through those doors that will open for him
Calculation or condition, but capitalism itself
make doors, cracks, holes for yourself,
where he will go with all he has
by force. ,

Capitalism allowed to exist already from the first
now devotes a lot of attention to its legalization
serious attention to creating your own press,
clearly obligated to serve

_@e to the creator and customer.

fe

Three issues of Eco-
nomista." Officially the magazine is
"Bulletin of the HG Department of Russian Technical
Society." They are heading very long
editorial board, which contains
familiar names: Brutskus, Zubasheva, V.P.
Kovalevsky, D.S. Zernov, Rafalovich
etc. The first number is printed in quantity
3 thousand; the second and 3rd are in 4 thousand.
The editors' intentions were not accompanied
any declarations and about the tasks of the journalism
nala very briefly stated in the editorial
in the preface of the first issue: “The mind is restored
is established in his rights "... "It is necessary to
similar to Taine's characterto erize Russian
revolution as "terrible but fruitful

>& crisis.”

It's quite innocent, literary
moyalno. But the reticence in the editorial

Horn No. 1 (6).

in these lines it is redeemed by the content of the self-
go magazine.

It must be admitted that everything placed became
ty published issues of the magazine certainly
imbued with unity of concept, methods,
buildings and even’ style.

The mind is restored to its para-
shaft!

The style is the good old Petey style
Rima Sorokin, whom the reviewer puts
next to Le Bon and Tarde and in relation to
to which more than once both have
the author is shown undoubted respect; this is
resurrecting terminology of real scholars
people for whom it is unthinkable to write. hundred
without such extremely convincing
sayings such as “Economic laws are not
unchangeable ‘and immutable” (No. 1, p. 155),
“Similar reasons in similar conditions arise
call for similar consequences” (No. 1, p. 76).

"The Roman civil war, bled
population of Rome; the French did the same
revolution; the same thing happened with us" (there
same, p. 95).

“The worst peace is better than a good quarrel.”

“In their behavior and history, people are pre-

‚ they honor 2Х2=4—2.х2=5. That's how it was

until now. So, I think it will continue to be so
for a long time yet." (No. 1, p. 101).

True, the sharpness of the last aphorism is so
amazes the author that he considers it a duty to
warn the timid reader: “This sounds
a paradox, but - alas! - not so far from
reality."

5

GOR:

№1 (6)

"The blue bird we thought we were
now they were holding it in their hands, it flew away...
seriously and for a long time. Dreams of great social
great achievements... they remained dream-
tami" No. 2, p. 3.

“Authoritarian distribution of economic
good things - this means that I am obliged to eat what
that, let it be beautifully made (oh forever
living gastronomes! K. Sh.) dish, which
what our communal service offers me
dining room—this means that I have no right to
choose furniture that I like,
this means that the young lady is obliged
dress (does not prevent the professor from confusing his
goals—“it’s been a long time since we’ve been in shathe girls didn't play"
K. Sh.) is not the hat that suits her.”
No. 3, p. 58.

The above is enough. You have a long time
the smell of mothballs will remain from this style,
but good professors are true to their tastes.

Despite such an old way of growing
from the pen of each author
shows undoubted cheerfulness not only in
water of the inviolability of laws, but also
that our critical thinking
desalinated Salt—intelligentsia—determined
Leninly focused his sympathies on “freedom
economic initiative and construction,
protected by state order,
providing everyone with equal rights,
security of person and property, protection
required by law." Chubutsky, No. 3, p. 53.

Gr. Brutzkus in a theoretical article ka-
categorically establishes that social
technical organization of the economy, even if
and she managed to “cast herself into stable forms,
would be distinguished by enormous conservatism and
inertia. Nothing like this ever changing
howl of economic life of capitalist
society, socialist society is not
‘would represent’. Professor Ozerov through
interprets the question in an extremely cheerful and businesslike manner
on the introduction of wine trade to correct
of our budget, calling on the authority
testimonies of the royal ministers and recorded
phenomena of American physiologists about the harmlessness
alcohol consumption.

_Cheerful magazine "Economist".

„

The slightly damp voices of economists and
sociologists writing in it sound amicably
and the ruthless nepman must pull up-
Xia—his cheerfulness will be found by the rachma
my scientific justification on the pages of Eco-
nomist" only to the extent of serious bourgeois
different intentions, because The Economist was not satisfied
pleased with the achievements of domestic
fans of private initiative.

“We must courageously admit that,
looking at the new economic policy,
We still don’t have, or almost don’t have, a bourgeoisie...
For serious creative work we need
raise or expel from abroad a bourgeois
zhua of a different mental appearance - true
industrial organizers who do not live
cheap tinsel of the night's debauchery, and not
tiredoh creative work."

The Economist is important not because of what it found
makes us remember all the bad qualities
angry at the socialist movement
owner or yawn from stupidity apo-
tables of the Austrian school, and, by the fact that each
with his article he reminds of survivability
hit enemy. Russian oppressed
classes managed to win a large and serious
clear victory over ‘their class pro-
tivnikami, largely because
these opponents were heterogeneous,

emerging, resurrecting capitalism begins
wants to position himself in a new way.

You can’t flatter yourself with the hope that
cheap special magazines, and expensive ones too
will not find the way to the proletarian Reader
or to the village.

The thirst for knowledge is enormous. :

The Economist gives numbers - fagts.
The skillful hand of a familiar person so their

presents what actually becomes

question: “why the devil is everything down to the bottom-
bigwigs if nothing is smarter than the owner

you'll figure it out."
True, this learned honey is very

lines, but you have to accept it that way. ‹
‹ We don’t have another “Economist”. Know-
cheat it needs to be created.

not-
sung, without a king in their heads; now updated-”

„m
r
‚

No. 1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY.

67

Still ahead, but the time is not far off,
when what was gained in a bloody struggle
gentlemen, bourgeois scientists will not only
call it a blue bird, or in some other way
more offensive. No matter how much they complain about the bad
writer's tone against the farmer, (p.
49, No. 3), but still the best rations are available
are fed by scientists, and foreigners are also fed

they sing because they know what songs he will sing
this bird (oh! not blue at all!). Their singing
`is ensured, and the order of people's lives in
which Europe is now dying, will pro-
to be proclaimed as unshakable, the only
possible and correct, because for this
everyone who justifies will receive justification
according to its dignity.

E: NOT

= New

We undoubtedly have before us the form
an ideological front fighting against us.
The enemy has a split-up
strong detachments and detachments of the army, for now, still weak
disciplined, but obedientadorned face
To one—the communist front.

True, this army is sufficiently armed
outdated and pretty shabby
ly battles with ideological weapons. Kava-
leria planted on old repair fi-
losof horses, but... well cleaned
dress sometimes makes an impression if
not new, then “quite decent”. By
clothes - legs. Despite this concern
To this front “so-so”, from a high de-
‘there’s still no left.

It is necessary to assess the enemy's strength,
determine his power base, his strategy and

> tactics.

The emergence of a new front took two steps
In ways: foreign and native.

Abroad, this front is beginning to form
fight when the Russian White Guard
it becomes clear that the power purchased by Antan-
Those weapons represented by the armies of Denikin, Vran-
gel, etc., broken, and hopes for intervention
even inside Soviet Russia, when Co-
Soviet power is moving to a new economy
ical policy. ,

Having accumulated scatteredly in the process of in-
The morning struggle of various factions as

"3 environment of the Western White Guard, and

__. Among the intelligentsia in Soviet Russia itself

this “revival” is quickly becoming obsolete
Internal contradictions begin to

‚front.

acquire a single face and a single language. Time
diversity of opinions at the first stages of formation
the opening of a new front opens up for us
a striking bouquet of opinions, moods, thoughts)
desires, aspirations of all colors of the rainbow.
There is only one thing common to all these groupings:
kam is sometimes clear, sometimes hidden
anger against Soviet power, communism
ical party and the revolution in general.

In their own style, language, thoughts are expressed
of these currents are different: some are elegantly cor-
correct, others are rude, some are more tolerant
zhany, others are uncontrollably passionate and
To this end, and not without ogakki, the goubos are frank.

"The first swallow." heralding "spring"
of this revival were soon to become
birthday people of our time “Smenovekhovtsy”
named after a collection of articles published
whelped by them in June 1921, abroad.

In a number of articles in this collection, Klyuchnikov,
Bobrischec—Pushkin, Chakhotin, Potekhin, Lu-
Kyanov, recognizing their former
positions, a number of mistakes, came to reconciliation with
Soviet power.

"We were wrong, we're not afraid to say
that we are going to Canossa,” through the lips of Chakhotin,
Smenovekhites showed up. We are changing the “milestones”, th
which we have followed so far. Klyuchnikov in his
The article comes from the old “milestones” released by
group of Bulgakov, Berdyaev, Izgoev
and others in 1909.

"Smenovekhovtsy" were the first of the Russians
intellectuals who have gained courage among
Russian White Guards from abroad
thrusting a bayonet into the body of the revolution, declare

5*
68 Grief

27

No. 1 (6)

that the card is their bit, that the “third Revolution
It won’t happen,” that you need to go to Russia and work
botal with the Bolsheviks.

For the first Smenovekhites it became clear:

"Revolution and Bolshevism for Russia
one thing: without a revolution, the Bolsheviks are just a bunch
"fanatics and bandits, without the Bolsheviks
revolution is just a coup, riot, pogrom,
anarchy without a breakthrough into the future and without
hope for the future. While at the beginning of the revolution
there was still hope to stop the revolutionary
ny spill (so that instead of it and somehow
differently, but do her own thing).

But the revolution goes on and on. Growing. Shi-
rushes. Deepens.

And if this is so, then we must admit that:

Soviet power, with all its defects—
the maximum power that can be in Russia,
the crisis of the Revolution.

We, contemporaries of the greatest historical
cataclysm, they didn’t understand this at all,
we reason: Revolution. Riot. When everything
it will end: -

In reality it won't end
maybe.

The old world will end no more and no less.

“The Russian Revolution is a social revolution”
Lucia" (my course by V.P.).

“Change of Milestones” Bobrishchev, Pushkin,
101 - 102.

But behind the “Smenovekhites” the Russian in-
the intelligentsia did not go. They themselves stated
they said that the Russian intelligentsia did not
nyala,, doesn’t want to understand what the leaders understood
revolution and the entire Russian people.

“For her, the great revolution is still not
happened. For her, the Russian revolution—
not a revolution, but just some very
big trouble, because she dared
wanted to marrythose neat and modest
the limits that were predetermined for her
‚ ranks by them. And what's saddest for them is...
the Russian revolution is not even Russian
koy, since she opened her arms wide
to everyone who agrees to stand under her
banners (Klyuchnikov “Change of Milestones”).”

Oh! How is this not new for our Russia?
Siysk intelligentsia.

p.

den, and he longs for new roads...

For a long time, moods had been wandering in her brain
nia, desires, which were aptly defined by Sal-
Tykov-Shchedrin “something painfully passionately
I wanted, either the constitution or the se-
vryuzhiny © horseradish, or someone
tear."

After the first “Milestones” in the collection “Where
We are coming,” published in 1910, “The Brain of the Nation,”
forty martyrs of our advanced intellectual
gentii howled.

“The old paths are well-trodden, answers to fate
high requests of the spirit, for passionate hungers No.
mind; those who doubt themselves cannot find
So what?
he did it. Where to go 1) 7".

The Great Russian Revolution broke
the bonds that bind Russia. Opened the shi-
fateful is truly a creative path on which
you can find answers to “fatal queries”

and the Russian masses found them. _And before-
nothing was done to him in the Revolution, nothing

did not learn in the great revolution nada
beautiful-hearted, absurd, and may they forgive
me "brains of the nation", politically ieumatic
intelligentsia.

Why is this so? Here is their own answer.

“The Soviet system, which suddenly arose on
ruins of the Russian Empire in full armor - _
alive, like Pallas from the head of Zeus, went crazy?
nice, confused all the theories, all sociology,
all intellectual experience. He's just insulting, |
beat like an insolent plebeian who burst into a ca- 5
binet, where such learned conversations were held, _
like a wild dream, delirium demanding rights, acting
Reality.

Blood would be forgiven, terror would be forgiven
and all violence, all mistakes were not forgiven
NEW...

Such a daring, puzzling jump -
somewhere into the distance, “where the devil is rushing.” Page
109 - 110?). |

Whine over the “little brother” “suffer” >
given the intellectual knew how, but when the one above

>
1) “Where are we going”, collection. Ed. “Dawn, Mo-_
skva 1910 Preface.
$ Seeena Vekh, pp. 109—110 Bobrishchev-
Pushkin. |
No. G (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY.

UR

259

whom they cried, he pushed with his own strength
`No. 5th that offended him, everything that got in the way. him
live, and deployed his creative powers,
then, the “brain of the nation” was offended and the first
took a stick over the head of the rebels so that
drive them back into the old kennel.

The Smenovekhites have already realized that this is impossible.
possible. This is their advantage. But it’s not enough to understand
that for 4 years it has been hammered into the heads of Russians
intellectuals with all the hammers of the revolution
Lucia. 2

Revolution is a fact, but how is it understood?
Here are the goals of Smenovekhovites. The ideology of
Novekhovites in their first training was
is still not clear enough.

This is how he talked about ideology
one of the authors of “Change of Milestones”.

“Above the Winter Palace, which has forever acquired
a glimpse of truly great-power greatness,
the red banner is boldly unfurled, and above
Spassky Gate, which is still
we have the deepest historical-national-
nal holiness, ancient chimes play
"International". Let it be strange and painful
For the eye, for the ear, let it offend, but,
in the end, in the depths. souls involuntarily
the question arises:

- Is the red banner ugly?
"Winter Palace" or opposite the Winter Palace

_ Retz paints the red banner?

—Does the International sound wicked?
kami desecrates the Spassky Gate or Spas-
The gates of the Kremlin infuse
new meaning to “Internationale”?..

Just like a modern Frenchman
to the question: “what is great about France” you don’t-
will certainly answer: “By decree and Rousseau, Vol-
ter and Hugo, Baudelaire, and Burgeonum, Lu-
KhSU’, Napoleon and the Great Revolution
resolution”—so do our grandchildren, when asked,
“What makes Russia great” they will say with pride:
“Pushkin and Tolstoy, Dostoevsky and Go-
roofing felt, Russian music, Russian religious
new thought, Peter the Great and great

“Russian revolution” 1).

————_

*) “Change of Milestones” Ustryalov, p. 56.

Everything here is still like an old warehouse
eaters - Pushkin, music, religious
thought, Peter the Great and... the Russian great-
what a revolution.

The position is not solid andespecially
clear. |

This is a swan, but in a fable it is called. "Tale
about the Russian intelligentsia" has its own `cancer and
your own pike.

Known for his sociological works
dami prof. Pitirim Sorokin, several ra-
she replaced the Vekhovites who went to Canossa,
repented of his crimes
tive of the revolution, in the "Bulletin of Literature"
writes about “Siena Veh” like this:

“Novovekhovtsy” rearranged their milestones
right, left. Yesterday's Romanovites, black-
centurions, Kolchakites and Octobrists, not yet

—

who wore out their shoes in which they walked _

in step with Kolchak, went to the Soviet
"Canossa" and call for joint work
more with 'the current government for the benefit of the homeland.'

After such a not particularly flattering recommendation,
dation Sorokin is trying to define the ideological
logical foundations of “Change of Milestones”.

“Change of Milestones,” he says, is ideology:
1) that part of the intelligentsia who wears
the name of “state specialists” and 2) that motley group
py persons, which is commercially powered by
authorities in the form of various handouts, sinecures,
concessions, etc. The interests of this social
no group are closely related to
being a stable and strong state
no power. 8
‘And what is this power: right or left,
Romanov, Kolchakh or Lenin - it doesn’t matter
for this group.

Today we are ready to shout: “Long live Dz
Caesar." Tomorrow - "Long live Brutus"
if this Brutus will be strong and nurturing
power. This is the psychology and morality
inherent in this group according to its social nature
kind. For the same reason, she is able
connect the incompatible: call with one hand

to the International, the other to nationalism,
It's a shame to sign decrees. communism,

the right hand of imperialism, etc.”
70 BURN:

No. 1 (6)

Pitirim Sorokin’s position is different. He doesn't
wants to connect the fate of the intelligentsia with the Vla
ness (after all, it is so unstable), him. position
is this:

“Other I would say “Anglo-Saxon”
the position was alien to her. This is the position
“independent activities”, regardless of the authorities,
position of “self-government”, not binding
its work exclusively with government agencies

‹ new bureaucracy, neither in scientific nor in industry
lighting, nand in economic, nor in any
any area of public
work.

Personal initiative, personal initial, personal
energy, productive work “according to
lead”, and not according to orders and whims
whoever it is, that’s what you need. There will be
this—everything else will follow. There won't be

“This—no hopes for any
white, nor on red bark. It's time
to internalize and internalize firmly.”

But I categorically disagree with him
a seasoned wolf, like A.S. Izgoev.

“It’s completely incomprehensible to me,” says
he, how can one lead “independently of the authorities?”
job”, for example, in the economic field
ity, when the authorities at any moment with
the power of decrees, taxes, tariffs, maybe
turn all my calculations upside down.
Here I will inevitably have questions or
other relationships to power, relationships
struggle, or cooperation, or
progress.

No, the necessary independence from power
sti lies not here. The intelligentsia must
to be independent from power in spiritual and
morally. Reborn, black-
nut new spiritual forces intelligentsia
can only come from spiritual sources. Not

. from one or another attitude to power, &
the future depends on the strength of the spirit of the intelligentsia
her role in Russian life.”

’ These discussions “on the topic” are followed by
blowing’ is a further logical step. Needed
touched upon some new soil, some
active force that could
would lean on. Pitirim Sorokin “spiritually
independently" and Izgoyev financially in order to

to be free in spirit. In this plane
Searches are underway for bones in all directions. To whom
to lean on, to whom to give one’s strength, in the name of
whose to create and work.

Search. first.

“Under our new economic policy
tika, a greedy marauder will come to life -
“grimy”, i.e. a new layer of bur-
zhuazii (of the people), because it happened
movement of valuables from one hand to another
gye."

“Yes, the “grimy one” will undoubtedly come. In force
the current economic situation
It cannot be otherwise. And he will probably come
even in a very large cell. Maybe, maybe
in the near future he will be the oneada-
val tone in life. So is it really 'intelligence-
Ligence, having voluntarily renounced the debt,
before the people and thereby deliberately eliminating himself
from participating in the construction of a new life,

will consciously help the “grimy” obi-.

the army of workers, including ourselves
most.

I would like to think that this is voluntary
political suicide of the intelligentsia
won't do it at all, & especially the best one
part, writers. He won't do it because
she is the Russian intelligentsia.”

The second quest.

“We must remember that all fate is ours, as
nation, as a state, as a cultural force
depends on how much gold is stored
the soul of the people and how we can make this gold
mint. If we are not destined to die,
we will inevitably have to go through it again
cutting the line of new populism, becoming
family lovers, like our grandfathers and
fathers. Otherwise, all our malice
strong feeling towards the people
It’s not on us. Our position
now both easier and more difficult than it was
in the 70s. It's easier because from everyone
worship of the people, we must think, have cured
forever and we will not give up the dream
mother for reality, it’s more difficult because
that we will have to do first of all curb-
of one’s passions, psychologically natural
social and, perhaps, legal, but, socially

with
--

-

No. 1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY. .

1

essentially criminal,” writes Nestor
Kotlyarevsky.

His thoughts are directed according to the old
well-worn path to the people, but already “without all
whom it is unnecessary to worship him,” leaning
to reality, and not to the dream that it was
the original sin of the old populism.

Here is a tangle of ideas, moods, feelings
of our intelligentsia in the 5th year
world revolution:

1) National-Bolshevism Smenovekhites.

2) Neo-populism of Nestor Kotl-
Revsky |

3) Anglo-Saxon uniform of Pitirim So-
rokina. |

These are the most pronounced lines
thoughts, and there is also Gershenzon with his
impulses of self-renewal, Vyacheslav Ivanov
with his “new” God-seeking, “Dream-
whether" A. Bely and others, and ethere's a whole row
bruised, "ill, suffering,
prisoners”... how many are there, where are they being driven!..
Where exactly? Which way?
will our intelligentsia go?

All this gobbledygook Pitirim Sorokin
calls the stage “inside the cerebral fermentation”
of Literature" and despite. nah, he found it
I have enough courage to proclaim
"the beginning of the great revision." In the article under
with this title in issue 2-3 (38-39) of West
Nika, Literature,” he, stating among the na-
shei intelligentsia "complete disappointment
in the basic foundations of the intelligentsia world-
views, in science, in revolution, social
lism, in the idealization of the people, in the belief in
bright future of humanity" (my course
V.P.), indicates that in the West there is already
the “great ice drift” began, a radical change
assessment of values.

“I,” says Sorokin, “personally rejoice and
I strongly welcome such quests as
in the West, as well as here. Experienced ka-
disasters suggest that human experience
quality was not full, otherwise there would be no disaster
it would be. Therefore, it is necessary to produce this
revision, you need to find “erroneous foundations” and

‘it is necessary to indicate new, more correct

ny, capable of preventing in the future such

such horrors and sacrifices. And the deeper and
this “revision” will be carried out fearlessly

‘Zia’, so much the better. BOND

This work has begun. And apparently
its results will be fraught: not only
"gods", but many "gods" will be thrown off
from their heights, and vice versa) much, traditional
traditionally considered unvaluable and outdated,
will be carefully lifted and placed on
place of cast-off idols. 9 means:
the real psychic is ideological.
the revolution is just beginning. (Kure. my
OUT, m

All this can be described as
reaction against the mechanical worldview
nia, anti-religiosity, anti-mystical
ness (kure. my V.P.) and a number of others
already purely social “isms”. And similar
moods are typical now for quite
wide circles of Russian society.

This is just the first sign. Already by
it shows that the audit is beginning,
Indeed, fundamental. Not tiny
questions,similar for or against Council-
power, and the questions are truly cordial
nals are beginning to be revised. "In
“Good hour,” I say for my part.”

Well, who will carry out this re-
vision? . G

Isn't it our intelligentsia? So what?
she thinks about revision and where it will lead us
its revision?

Graceful gloves of Pitirim, Sorokina
hide his claws in the form of such layers-
Vechek in his “great revision”, as - “in
the era of the collapse of unsuccessful experiments in the genus
French Revolution, etc.” This
"etc." leads one to assume that
Sorokin considers the category of unsuccessful experiments
and the Russian revolution. He wants to search
exit in science, which does not prevent him, Soro-
I’ll throw, look at, a person, as if he’s “great”
miracle”, perceive it as a ray of the divine
new in the world." And not only humans.
“The same can be said about all Kos-
Moses."

Science and Divine Origins
Space all this in the elastic brain of the pre
72

G or E

No! (6)

consecrated sociologist'. Pitirima ways of life-
can be done without much difficulty.

From here the divine
connection of the Theological ‘Institute with the upiversi-
thet in St. Petersburg under the auspices of Professor Kar-
Savina. And it’s time to say that all our in-
zelligentsia, now grinding “vehi”, dis-
penitent, revising, seeking, playing
a very bad game for the revolution. Shift
Vekhovites go to Soviet Russia, supporting
live Soviet power and its policies, not
because they have become really though
would be National Bolsheviks, but out of conviction
information that the Soviet government is committing
now, according to their expression, “the descent to the brakes”
zakh" to great power and bourgeois de-
mocratic system

Pitirim Sorozhins, Karsavins, Ivalno-
you, etc. are also pulling the Russian intelligentsia
tion and mass, since it perceives
their “wandering separately” thoughts into the old swamp
mysticism, religiosity, all that stinking
thrice damned streak that we have overcome
we work with such difficulty in the process of difficult
We've been fighting for 5 years now.

In all their "searches" a red thread

the aspiration from revolution, str-.

the desire to be free from it,revise it.
For them, the Russian and developing world
The new revolution is not a great revision, but
itself an “unfortunate misunderstanding.”

Our intelligentsia still remains
true to yourself. She just can't get a hold of it
into the ground, wings of idealism and mysticism
they pull it from the earth into the empyrean of the spirit.

She wants to reassess her values
herself, wants to be self-sufficient,
wants to ‘step aside from the revolution, ignore-
initiates a grandiose unfolding process
world revolution, without it and against its will
started and developing regardless of
her malice, dreams and thoughts. By-
It was still a small lesson for him. revolution, but
apparently the idiocy of our intelligentsia is up to
penetrated so deeply into her thickness,

that © her tongue does not fly off a single
a little practical and creative word. She
dreams of creating conditions for himself in which
her intellect, brought up in overturned
revolution forms of public, found
would be your element. But... the revolution creates
conditions for yourself, but not for the intellectual
Ligence, she won't go, she can't go
along the paths of our dreams once
red-stuffy, and now evil intelligence
gentii. She will go her bloody, thorny way
the straight, tough way. More than once the world has changed
lives the grandiose skirmishes of the nascent
and a dying world. There is still a lot of evil
brings to humanity the dying old, and
the aggravation of this evil will objectively be
contribute to our non-perceiving re-
revolutions intelligentsia.

Everything that is bright does not come from the old
behests of the intelligentsia, but from the revolution, from
vemli, from blood and smoke’ ‚ In it
something new is born. And we don't share many
quiet judgments about what has perked up
literature, milestones are changing, here is ours,
the intelligentsia has come to its senses, it is moving along
new path, etc., etc. d.

All this is ironing of our intelligentsia
on the head objectively contributes to
that she bends at the angle of her mystical
and idealistic sentiments are deeply re-
promotional line.

And this, despite all the beautiful
the words that are now spilling out into different
personal works of the “revived”,"carry-

‘emerging’ layers of our intelligentsia.

"Look to the root."

But fundamentally this is not the case,
how it is depicted in ostentatious, festive
lines, captivating with the brilliance of their appearance
and some “newness of mood”, “sincere
ness" it. No.

The fundamental point is clear. Front and front ser-
a useful one is created. He needs a counter-
to develop the power of our thought, our ideology,
our criticism. >|
V. Pletnev.

| 1

$

№1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY.

13

To all proletarian writers R.S.F.S.R.

Dear comrades!

The Great October Revolution, widespread
The greatest scope and nationwide reach of its individual
significant stages were thrown into our ranks
a large number of writers and poets from small-
bourgeois and semi-proletarian layers
society, often revolutionary - sincerely
them, but deprived of a solid class-community
nistic worldview and correct
understanding the tasks of a proletarian writer.

The moment we are experiencing is so-called
my NEP, and some associated with it
revival in the camp of the silent bourgeois
different literature and the emergence of private

publishing houses, on the one hand; energetic
care, various circles, etc. societies, str-
those eager to raise the banner of the idealistic philosophy
losophy and religious mysticism, on the other—
pose a serious threat to known
some of our comrades, deprived of comfort,
good communist base, and proletarian
skaya ideology.

Recently, there has been an appearance
works of proletarian writers on
from the pages of publications that are foreign, and often
even those hostile to class tasks pro-
letariat. All-Russian Association Pro-
Letarian Writers, being the successor
and bearer of the best testaments of the first
literary associations of the working class,
arose long before the revolution of 17, not
can pass over such phenomena in silence,
threatening to destroy the united front of the pro-
letarian literature and leading to free
or involuntary betrayal of the cause of world pro-
letariat.

Cooperation on the economic front
with naya elements that are alien in any case
tea should not lead to a similar
associateprogress in the construction of our

class proletarian culture.

The forced retreat on the economic
skom front forces us to close tighter
ranks and raise in fiction-
round the banner of militant materialism.

Based on this, the Board of the All-Russian
skaya Association of Proletarian Writers
requires its members to immediately
fulfillment of the following points:

1) Members of the All-Russian Association of Pro-
Letarian writers should not be
members of other literary and artistic
ny organizations, unions and circles.

2) Unconditional non-participation of members of the All-Russian
Siysk Association of Proletarian Writers
in the press organs, alien to the proletarian-com-
munist ideology.

3) Speeches by proletarian writers
at literary and other evenings with writing
teachers and poets of groups hostile to us
must have as their goal the fight against the latter
THEM.

All-Russian Association of Proletarians
writers takes immediate action
ku their ranks in order to remove those pi-
workers who, due to the lack of class-
social consciousness and firm communist
sky view, are unable to carry out
marked line.

Board of the All-Russian Association of Pro-
letarian writers declares re-registration
stration, adding that henceforth its members
will be accepted only by comrades who
who will unconditionally accept and fulfill everything
the above requirements. :

Vl. Kirillov, Mikh. Gerasimov,
Iv. Filitchenko, S. Obradovic,
S. Rodov, S. Malashkin, A. 'Dofo-
Goichenko, P. Yarovoy, Gr. Sannikov,
A. Bezymensky, P. Nizovoy,

N. Poletaev, V. Kazin.
IE. r. E

74

BURN:

№1 (6)

Letters from St. Petersburg.

Academic science and mysticism,

There is a lot of evidence that the revolution is ruining science.
was written and said by ‘Russian academics’
chemical scientists. At every convenient and
in an inconvenient case, is burying the deceased pro-
fessora, are you celebrating the anniversary of any
whether a scientific institution, whether publishing a
some “own” magazine or book - all
a self-respecting, certified scientist
ny R.S.F.S.R. considered it his duty
spill a fewtears over the clogged more-
wiki science.

“Scientists were marred by hunger and cold,”
“students were dispersed”, “papers on, publishing-
they don’t give us permission”, “relationships with foreign countries are
they were sacked,” “scientific institutions are not drowned.”

We do not deny that in conditions of revolution
tion time scientific work, action
indeed, it was difficult, although by no means
not through the fault of (Soviet power. Soviet
the authorities carefully issue the academic pa-
ek to all those who actually work in scientific
no region to individuals, pays high rates
to professors, to blockading Europe

often sends scientific expeditions for li-

literature, willingly publishes in the state. publications
scientific works and supports as much as possible
scientific publishing houses, societies, institutions
nia. If we compare the concerns about science of the bourgeois
multi-democratic ‘governments of Germany’
research, Austria, France, countries economically
There are still fewer people devastated by war than Russia.
these and the concerns of the Soviet government, it turns out
that Soviet power is far ahead
other governments. New economic
politics, having unleashed private initiative,
expanding the possibilities of procurement in the free
market and fees from it in one or another
form (paid lectures, book sales,
publishing magazines for the “liquid public”),
made it even easier to strengthen
scientific work. Postal, telegraph and
other relations with foreign countries were restored
and are far from being so difficult. And

‘

It seems to us now that the proletariat, who
who himself, hungry and cold, so many
Gim sacrificed to preserve life and
performance of representatives of scientific
thoughts, right, ah, the workers' government even
obliged to ask academic scientists:
You, who demand a broad state
support for your free (after all, every
interference in academic affairs
brand as violence and barbarism) creative
honour, would you like to offer a flight?
riat anything equivalent to that share of the created
the social product he is creating, which
what do you need and will you teach him how to
what he needs to build a new life,
if he comes to you to studyI?

From this point of view it is interesting to see
what areas was attention directed to?

the work of our trained scientists for the last
her time, since they could freely
create, what moods possessed them, what
they created.

As for St. Petersburg, here we need rocks
The picture is not very comforting. Pi-
Terek academic scientists, no matter how many
they had to spend time getting
rationing of all kinds of rations (academic,
Red Army, railway and military
more than all those invented by the People's Commissariat), all
did not forget to maintain the bodily
well-being and spiritual needs. They
wrote and published brochures, articles, books,
read reports, gathered for meetings
different societies, showed their attitude
to the great social
shift.

But if we consider the main centers
their unity and types and manifestations of scientific
creativity, we will be forced to be amazed
just by listing these centers
and types. The fact is that one of the institutions
ny, where a lot of strength and energy is spent Piz
Terek scientists will turn out to be Bogoslovsky
Institute, i.e. private educational institution,
which replaced the former Theological Academy and

3
and.

№1 (6)

ECONOMY AND SOCIETY.

15

aiming to prepare Russia new
"educated" priests. This is very
great scientific significance’ (from the point of view
Middle Ages) institutions read the main
courses, surrounded by a number of academic
smaller stars, two professors
Petrograd University N. O. Los-
skiy, intuitionist philosopher and metaphysician, echi-
proud of the Russian University
Tet philosophy, and L.P. Karsavin, pro-
professor of social and pedagogical department
Faculty of Social Sciences Pe-
Trograd University, very serious
candidate for rector of this University,
talented historian.

Already this personal closeness of the University
site and the Theological Academy does not promise anything
what good. But what vol. Karsavin and Los
Skiy is not alone among his colleagues in Aka-
demographic science, shows the latest tor-
Feminine Godot celebrationof the Uni-
university Let's not talk about private
in the manner served the day before the official
th celebration of the anniversary of the prayer service,
living in one of the professors' quarters
shooting range placed at the University. building where
as we know, many pro-
fessora, & performed the service “himself”

Metropolitan Benjamin.

Let what they want to consider private
scrap and will remain a private matter. If Ale-
Xander wants to be a god, let him be 6o-
homo, as the Spartans responded to the demand
'Alexander the Great was recognized by his husband
God. On the act itself, a former party member
s.-r. and Establishment Collected, renounced poly-
tics in a Soviet prison, (which doesn’t interfere"
him to oppose conciliation and
opportunism of Smenovekhovites), pro-
sor Pitirim Sorokin, author of sociology, with
thunderous applause from the entire almost professional

suras, called for the strengthening of the national.

feelings, the only support of the family, personally
of property and property, mourned the loss

“Russian identity that flourished in the era-
= XY of the Moscow kings, and declared that he would save

Russia is only possible by lighting the lamp
faith from the teachings of Sergius of Radonezh.

This turned out to be the keynote speech about
professors of Petrograd University, in 104
anniversary of its existence. :

If Lossky and Karsavin dream of
zhaniya to Vladimir Solovyov, then a slight
ideological maneuvers, former socialist Sorokin.
obviously takes aim straight at “reverends.”

But for now it will be possible to transform Petrograd
University of the Sorbonne 1) ours, pro-
professorship captured in the capable hands of the “great
believers" a number of scientific publishing houses:
and important institutions. I don't know
is it required to get into c0-
list of candidates provided by the professorship.
to the Research Institute, (dol-,
woman to prepare future pro-
professors), as when joining the Sich, using
to know God and to be baptized, but with wind,
that Marxists do not get there, even if they have
printed scientific works; whereas on
believers and cadets are sought out in every way
existing young ladies capableonly zu-
shave the required textbooks just to
fill up the places.

There is a publishing house in St. Petersburg "Na-
Science and School”, which set itself the goal of
give a number of books for serious preparation
to serious scientific self-education (so,
called "introduction to science"). And here in
Editorial Board of the Philosophy Department
turned out to be L. P. Karsavin and N. O. Lossky,
to the College of History next to Zhebelev
and Priemkov sat down with the same Karsavin.

Is it any wonder after the fact that “Science and
School" managed, along with really building
th scientific, albeit eclectic, bookish.
kami Zhebelev, and Wulfius from a distance “ZAN ela” s
Karsavina - a discussion on the topic of
why and how we should believe in god,
him. same as “introduction to history”, I prove--
giving us “without any partiality”, which is
you can only learn something from history
with the help of religious feeling, believing that.
humanity is united, developing,

`

') Faculty of Theology of the University of Paris.
city in the Middle Ages. Famous as the era
Catholic Church and supplier of "scientists" of God

words throughout Europe.
. r
OT=.

{

No.

76

and,

RN. №1 (6)

soul-gifted personality and penetrating into this
soul directly (intuitively) with your
consciousness.

A book by the famous researcher was also published.
developments in the field of economic life
ancient Russia Dobiash-Rozhdestvensky
history of the Middle Ages, where the definition of
the sharing role in the Middle Ages of the idea of the blessed.
“Augustine on the City of God.

Philosophy is published, mainly
Thus, the works of Lossky, who agreed to
denial of Maleria's independence, volume
‘clarification of the whole world from an unknowable being
of the Absolute Divine and the half-
who lived his philosophy as the basis of the patriarchal
our Orthodox metaphysics of the old from-

` revealed mystic and metaphysician, Alekseev.

The second more popular scientific publication
\ The Circle of Knowledge also published
Karsavin's book about Catholicism, seriously
interpreting relationships in the best possible way
God's son to God's father, about the firstborn
sin, about the combination of predestination bo0-
life with freedomoh will, what does the author have to do with it, though
and teaches at the Theological Academy, obviously
considers calolithic very close to the “truth”
logical solutions to issues. Printed there
Tana, Karsavin's book about the culture of middle
centuries, reducing the history of the latter to a struggle
be the church for the unification of humanity in
‚God and Dobiali-Rozhdestvensky’s book about the cre-
camping trips, explaining these trips
purely religious reasons.

In a recently released philosophical

‚ the commitment of the journal “Thought” is the same Karsa-
Vin agreed to evidence that he knew
a brilliant charlalan and magician - Mostradamus
could indeed correctly and accurately predict
call the future.

Sri such a mood is not surprising,
that a sober literary historian is usually
N. Kotlyarevsky in his last thick
The book "XX century" examines literature
this century, mainly from the point of view
development of religious ideas in her, which
F. F. Zelinsky, famous Russian researcher
giver of ancient culture, in the latter
in your book about the religion of Hellenism, he offers

tries not to tear off the veils from the secrets of religious
a lot of feelings and not even talk about the
veil, believing that they only act differently
ignoramuses and charlatans.

Venerable Prof. Zelinsky must
this book will bring peace of mind, “read-
tel" that he firmly professes that religion
the culture in which I was born and raised from childhood.

So, academic representatives of the general
sciences in their free creativity
most likely to understand their duty
before the people as he recently stated it
in the "Chronicle of Writers" the old Cadet and
vekhist (Vekhi P, 1900) Izgoev “in pro-
counterbalance to the corrupting class sermon
struggle, preached God to the people, wore
has been in the hearts of the people for a long time.” The whole question
is whether support is needed and deserved
support from the proletariat, such pro-
story and corresponding science?

We are ready to allow that, using
with their title of scientists, Rev. Piti-
Romes, in any case, kicked the ideas of com-
munism. Not from the chaotic Sorokin,
then from his more talented colleagues, from
leaving behind their political nonsense, fly byarias
could sculpt special knowledge
faklyuv and methods. But if`sama, special
science at 9/,, will turn into areas of general
studies in theology, in medieval
scholasticism and metaphysics, into a dispute about “what
how tall was Adam and he was dark-haired
red,” as an akathist to Sergius of Radonezhe?

This is the question that arises when you see
obscurantism of our certified historians
Rikov, sociologists, philologists (philosophers,
of course, a long-lost place for us
ria of "scientists"), who, at the time when
Pavlovs, Bekhterevs, Timiryazevs, Rozhde-
maternity ones make really big
scientific discoveries in psychiatry, physiology
gy, physics and other natural sciences,
renounce old scientific methods
research of social phenomena and pi-

=

U"

GR

jester theological treatises and call back +

to Sergius of Radonezh and the Sorbonne. On ^_

1.

this question needs to be answered.
you.
No.

E

Science and labor.

—

Science and labor.

Human life and work are inextricably
connected to each other. In order to pi-
hide, take shelter from bad weather and cold,
a person must spend wisely
some amount of your energy to use
use of substances for this purpose
childbirth. The entire history of mankind is
the continuous process of development and improvement
improving the method, using forces
and substances of nature, aspirations with the least
at the expense of human energy to obtain
the greatest amount of benefits for humans
century, substance, nature. This process is about
labor process; for thousands of years he
changes extremely and yet
always in its essence consists of mutual

the interaction of three elements (components

ties): labor, tools of labor (intruments,
machines, etc.) and the subject of labor (mining)
processed substance of nature
material). Will we mean di-
curry killing an animal with a stone for pi-
cabbage soup, or a modern weaver weaving on
improved fabric-veyudu machine
we will find these and only these three elements).

If we're from the distant past
gradually ascend to the present dayshe, we
Let us note that humanity manages to obtain
more and more useful
benefits for him at the cost of ever less
the amount of your personal physical strength,
replacing it with the power of nature. But this law
this observation is only true when we

We consider all of humanity as a whole.
If we look at the ratios of me-
waiting for the classes that make up humanity,
then we will see that this is the greatest conquest
the achievement of human genius, which placed him
disproportionately higher than all other creatures on
earth, distributed according to its results.
quite unevenly among classes. V.
society based on the principle of private
property, desire and ability to liberate

expected from the expenditure of PERSONAL energy at ^

obtaining a means of subsistence, “get out.
work" on another force, outside the person himself
century, it does not carry out
only’ in relation to the forces of nature, but also in
in relation to their own kind, - class state
the mastery of one part of humanity gives it
possibility of labor process, process of application
appropriating useful substances of nature,
carried out in an ideal, so to speak, form
me, where the cost of personal physical effort
comes down to zero, where all the work is dumped.
on the shoulders" of another part of humanity, sub-
repaired first. Thus the process:
labor in the course of historical development through
has become extremely complicated, and the general trend
this complication is expressed in the fact that,
all the creative elements of the labor process,
its management and its design (building
nie) sought to appropriate the dominant
class, leaving the immediate
performer, producer, purely
mechanical functions. (However, until then
78

mountains

Us s, To stos A AVE I VS th. Y

№1 (6)

while the participation of natural forces in the pro-
production of values and means of subsistence
was insignificant, this trend was not
could be implemented quite fully,
and limited to the area of material
parts of the production process).

But with the invention of machines that gave
humanity the opportunity to use
productionve means of existence force
nature to an immeasurably greater extent than
this was before their appearance, material and
creative power of the ruling class
began to increase enormously, production
the process has become extremely complicated
and the question of how to
Soba use of human resources
in this process; the issue of labor organization.
In itself, it is extremely valuable for people.
` humanity the possibility of mechanization of production
watering process, i.e. opportunity
replacement of human muscular energy, energy
gey of the forces and laws of nature used
with the help of a machine and mechanism, gave
under the conditions of the capitalist system of the state
subordinate class means to post-
foamy liberation from addiction
special skills of the manufacturer and to me-
hanization, to transformation into a machine and sa-
from this manufacturer. Economic and
based on its political oppression, experienced
deprived of any means of production,
except their own hands, the proletariat, oppresses
so sensitive and distinct that
‘the entire class was focused on him
the struggle of the working class, leaving aside
the most production process is co-
inside the production process,
at the site of direct application
bochy power of the ‘manufacturer, such a promise-
new and the conditions in which the organiza-
theization of labor in general could pro-
flow only beyond control and class
working class influence. It's endless
‘troll domination in the labor process
led to the fact that issues of labor organization
in this process, capital
stical organizer exclusively with
point of view of interests of the production organization

*

production, and the trend of expropriation from production
manufacturer of creative process elements,
labor received a vivid manifestation: the ideal
organization was the transformation of production
body into a living instrument, subject to tempo
machines to the exclusion of any conscious
attitude towards the work being done. Capital
the listical organizer is only interested
-in its best functioninggo ma-
tire production, and the inclusion
manufacturer in this process was achieved
implementation of economic and political
Russian domination.

The question of labor organization interested him
only insofar as it was in in-
interests of intensification of production and
removing obstacles to this intensification
cation from the manufacturer. Therefore
the problem of labor organization is power
the owl problem of the proletariat and only
they can put it in half
nom volume, and only under its pressure,
on his initiative there may be
solved.` The main essence of the problem can-
can be formulated as a problem
restoring the unity of the labor process,
creating consciousness among the working masses and
creative attitude to the work being done
both. It is necessary to restore in your community
knowledge of the truth that 06n0v0% of everything,
no matter how complex it is, productive
process, production, is
the labor process, which is all production
consists of a combined mass of pro-
labor processes and that the entire management apparatus
production process must
be built so that everyone
the labor process could take place in it
most rationally, accordingly
capabilities and production abilities
driver and goals of this process.

What can and should science give us?
to resolve this basic problem
Bogo class, problems of labor organization?

Economists and technicians alike claim
It is expected that the nature of the productive process
the process depends solely on the development
technology, which is based on its own
№1 (6) SCIENCE

ITU. : < 49.

laws, the use of which creates pro-
mental process, and therefore proclaimed
the freedom of the path “which is predetermined for her” is lost
calls “the mind of technology,” its being.”
This situation is extremely reminiscent
the state of affairs that was at the time
change when Adam Smith, the creator of economics,
chemical science, wrote his research about
"The Wealth of Nations", in which he transported
stressed the need to provide ka-
) everyone needs to take care of their interests.

| 1 Equipment, onlaw on the use and application
: changes in forces and laws of nature in general
to obtain benefits for humanity,
livelihood, has played and will
play a role of extreme importance for
) increasing the benefits created with its help,
| It gives unlimited opportunity to
_reduction of productive forces, savings
human energy, mechanization of production
watering process, i.e. job replacement
man by the work of a mechanism. But development
| everything can go in two ways: by mechanical
]

ization of the production process, and by
mechanizing it. The first way is undoubtedly
has an unconditional value for the proletariat
ity, as for the working class. View
trim, which is the second path.
By mechanization we mean this
organization of the production process, in
in which from beginning to end everything goes like
(In the car, i.e. all movements are made
© predetermined sequences
power and speeds where there is neither space nor
time for reasoning and choice. By-
| how much the production process is completed
communicates with raspberries and the person just watches
‚ 34 her work and this work is summarized and
® controls, this is the mechanization of the pro-
Cessa; but since the person is included in the move
r _And the work of the machine, as its part, must
Made monotonous completely predetermined
New movements with predefined
speed, and violation of these conditions entails
behind you or a danger to a person or
suspension of the process is Malninization
Humans, in the production process, are subject to
Man repairing a machine.

=

The success of productivity lies in the combination
knowledge, skills and desires {). Process ma-
shinization by the power of things kills every kind of
barking, replaced by naked
economic coercion. The task of the technical
nicknames standing in the service of the proletariat,
is elimination from production

process, principles of malinization and replacement

their actual mechanization. Technique
still haven’t completed the work, mechanization
to the end, and since the invention of this
the machine was brought to use simplywow
"unskilled" worker, the matter is considered
it seemed finished.

In the history of invention there is a brilliant
an example of such incompleteness and witty
first solution to the problem, giving at the same time
visual representation of mechanization and
mechanization. The first steam engine
built by the Englishman Nyukonen. In this car
well, it started at first, the steam that raised its
force the piston, and then the water that cooled
steam, as a result of which the piston is lowered again
rocked down - with the help of two cranes, which
which the inventor provided one by one
open and close assigned to
this goal for the boy. It's a boy, Humphrey
Petter, who is tired of being part of ma-
tires, finished what I didn’t care about
a strapper who didn't have to
hanging around the car 12 hours a day.
G. Petter came up with the idea of tying the
ropes, and the ends of the ropes to the source of the piston
nya, who is rising and falling der-
pulled the strings and opened the taps. Ma-
tireized Humphrey mechanized his
labor process. This little Humphrey must
remain in our memory forever as an oli-
the creation of the desire for real me-
Hanization of the production process. We
we can say - contrary to the opinion of one scientist
professor and technician: “even for a Russian
the proletariat has no special paths and
laws of technology and industrial development
"—that science and technology must re-

\) Gelferich. „Development of the National Economy
Germany." Ed. V.S.N.H. 1920, p. 26.
80

THORNE.

look at your laws and, most importantly, habits,
from the point of view of labor organization, which
should be put at the forefront. Needed
learn how to approach the design of small
we and the methods of production from our point of view
interests of labor, its organization, and not

only from the point of view of increasing production
activity. Both points of view do not contradict
chat to each other. About these new ways we
we'll talk another time.

M. Piolunkoveky.

Modern tasks of labor science.

RA

Labor science, by its nature, is
meta cannot be an abstract science,
cut off from immediateconditions and
demands of life. Moreover, it should be said
It should be noted that, despite its youth, the system
rational organization of labor could not
do not reflect changes in technical
and social working conditions for three or four
decades of its existence.

Interest in enterprise management methods
ties according to the so-called Taylor system
manifested itself here, in Russia, approximately
only in the last decade. Designed

understanding this interest and realizing all of it’

of enormous importance through the creation
special institution that studies labor
(Central Institute of Labor V.C.S.P.S.,
basic September 16, 1920) represents co-
fight the invaluable merit of professional
unions of the last time of the revolution.

This date is not accidental, from it you can extract
lead to those peculiar features that
acquires in modern Russian conditions
problem of labor organization.

Hunger and unheard of material deprivation -
action—these are the phenomena that impose on this
the task has its indelible stamp. For the organi-
nizers and, even for historians of Taylorism,
the statement will not seem bold: if
until now in European humanity there is no
thought about cutting down on spending
human efforts in production and
their best use, then the indicated
higher than the phenomenon in Russia 1918-22. should

would be the first time to evoke this thought and clothe
it into the form of an appropriate system.
We are terribly tired of the long line
war and revolutionary years, we razzo-
plagued by blockade and inevitable destruction,
accompanying the search for new forms of organiza-
nization of the local economy. Hunger strikes
and makes us move and work,
what is called “with all your might.”
Let us remember the well-known calculation, TV is useless
bursting living working energy that will make
suitable for peacetime conditions: North-

The American United States is losing.

30% of her cash fund (according to Taylor),
France—40% (according to Amar), Russia is destroying
no less than 80% of its enormous human-
sky wealth. a

We will die if we scatter like this =
to build the surviving remnants of the people's power into
this lawsuitextremely difficult period of our
history.

Immeasurable need, disaster and grief beset

allows us to impartially take into account our
resources. and use them to speed up
to get out of this terrible historical
sky failure.
Organizing labor scientifically means for
us today - it is more profitable and skillful for us to

manage the reserve of strength and environment, released

new to our generation.

This means not allowing a single demon.

useful and unnecessary movement in work,
determine the most advantageous ratio measure
between work and rest, required

to restore strength, put everyone at

man of our time in his place for

1 (6) g.

H

a

No. 1 (6)

SCIENCE AND THUD.

81

best use of its natural
abilities, this means finding the most
a quick way to train everyone correctly and
easy to work with.

The organization of labor is relentless and all-
absorbing task of his time and, not
for nothing one of the first creators of the science of
work Frank Gilbreth pointed out its non-
countable applications not only in indus-
stria, but also “in offices, schools, shops
nah, household and agricultural
svetstvo".

It is clear what dark ignorance is hidden
in a banal view of scientific organization
unfortunately, we still find
giving himself supporters as a luxury,
inaccessible to our exhausted and deprived
human economy.

For these Russian conditions, the science of
labor is precisely what should appear as that spa-
a powerful invention, which is cunning,
according to the proverb.

p.

Severe need always and in all cases
was a source of awakening the spirit of initiative
initiatives and inventions. The wretchedness of our
_bil and production means can become

="
imperative reasons for seeking

the most advanced ways of working.

In this regard, we will need to
We hope to use it in advance - European -
sky experience. What are his positive data?
ny and what are the characteristic features of that movement?
marriage, which under the winged name “that one”
"lorism" is now disturbing the whole world? |

To get up to speed right away
let's give one casetea from the life of Frederick
Taylor, the founder of modern system
systems of scientific organization of labor.

Walking one day near a building under construction
Ma, Taylor noticed that the mason who
erected a wall, took bricks from the ground, under-

_I lowered them to the height of my belt and then
attached them to one another using
your scapula with cement. Taylor 'became
it is clear that the most tedious part of the work

Bugle No. 1 (6).

`the bots of this mason are not'
to cement the bricks, but under-
lift each brick weighing 3
kilogram at least 2 times per mi-
chickpeas to a height of about 11/5 meters.

If by any means, mechanically
sky or with the help of another person, in
giving the bricklayer one brick after another—
it is obvious how productivity will increase
his work. He will be released from the need
walking, bending over bricks and all
fully concentrate your strength and attention,
to lay them and cement them.

Using this specific example, you can
follow the principles of expediently organizing
bathroom labor.

Any work can be decomposed into
its simple parts are elements.
In this case, the work of a mason from the first
Taylor's first glance was divided into
two independent. operations: 1) lifting
bricks from the ground and 2) cementing them.

If it is not possible to reschedule execution
a simpler element, work on a machine—
it is carried out by another lesser worker
qualifications. Before us is an idea in embryo
precise division of functions between works -_
nicknames

When work is broken; into elements and dis-
distributed between employees, to be
find out the best way of execution
each of its elements. In this case, not
it is necessary to study the position and movements
mason who supplies bricks and cement
describing them, and choose the ‘most concise
and lungs, excluding useless and unnecessary
tedious. The last task is done
subject of long-term research near
Taylor's closest follower - Frank
Gilbreth, set out in his work “Izu-
movement."

By providing the most appropriatee and
light labor movements, it is necessary to determine
divide. time required for production
each operation. Studying the elements of time
will give me the opportunity to build a normal
working hours and accurately measure production
labor productivity.
82 HORN,

No. 1 (6)

gp

How can our masons not work?
work continuously and need rest,
you need to learn to recognize their size
fatigue and in accordance with the properties of the organ-
It’s difficult to properly distribute labor time
and rest. This is important in order to
to save a person as a worker
car and protect it from harmful
fatigue.

'By dividing the labor process into elements,
discarding inappropriate labor movements
zheniya, defining normal working hours
and rest time, we are able to do all these
enter the data on the instruction card
ku, which is issued to the worker and
serves him as guidance and control.

However, it may turn out that some
a miner serving bricks is testing
great inconvenience when bending and de-
barks it so slow that the worker, them
cementing, remains without moments
affairs. In this case, before us in element-
packaged ‘question about the suitability of the worker
to profession' - a field of study of a special
science—psychotechnics, which determines the pro-
professional leicho-physiological
employee signs.

Here, briefly, within this profession-
siopal labor, illustration of various
aspects of his scientific organization.

t

Sh.

We see, therefore, that the science of
)
work presupposes more

How to choose professions abroad.

What have you become? What profession should you choose?
elect? These are the questions he asks himself
every person at the moment when he becomes
finds his feet and chooses his own path
in life; questions are extremely important, because from
the correct answer to them sometimes depends
human destiny. How do people do you
struggle between hundreds of professions? What are they

effort on processing the method of labor itself
yes, preceding his actual conviction
realization. At first glance it appears
it turns out that wewe are dealing with double tra-
that energy: for research, reflection
over the method of work’ and only then on it
implementation in this improved
form. Experience shows that this preliminary
more than enough effort and resources
pays off with an exceptional increase in production
productivity of labor.

We need to spread it widely
the amount of knowledge that this represents
hour rationalization of labor in order to
her methods have entered into the flesh and blood of everyone
employee.

If we achieve what we want for everyone"
people will begin to approach the matter as if it were truly
born of these methods and under their influence
they will peer inquisitively at the work
and look for better ways to accomplish it—
we will achieve a great victory. |

This will mean that labor science,
drawing on concentrated laboratory experience
thorough research, reached a wide
spaciousness of life, saves exhausted strength
her creativity and spends them © tenfold
return.

Scientific organization of labor in conditions.
the near future - the correct “fueob”
revival of our national economy,
which is in our own
hands.

V. Pertsov.

and

guided? Are there any instructions on what
qualities you must have in order to become solid
nickname, mechanic, chauffeur, etc.? Such
there are almost no instructions, and most people
chooses his profession by chance “in the following way.” |
I sing,” sometimes a boy or girl gets carried away
someone's success and imagines that he too
(or she) needs to do the same thing
AN

“ No. 16)

SCIENCE AND LABOR.

83

`

(especially often interested in theater), but
generally speaking, it’s still a choice of profession
was and is being done almost without any
no reason. As a result, a lot of spoiled
precious lives: there is nothing worse,
when a person has spent a lot of effort and time
me to learn some trade,
and then came to the conclusion that it was
he doesn’t like the matter, that he doesn’t have any
qualities required for this task; retrain
it’s too late and the person is pulling the strap, de-
barking until the end of my life is my least favorite thing. But
the wrong choice of profession brings
enormous harm not only forefficient
person, but also for the whole society, everything
states: it has been proven that the greatest pro-
labor productivity in any job can be
can only be given by the person who is given
has abilities in the new field of work; next
Therefore, in the interests of the state, the concern
Strive for all citizens to be
correctly distributed among professions;
under this condition, the use of working
population strength gives the greatest results -
you; So the whole point is to find out
what are the necessary qualities needed for that
or other profession and whether this person has
great person with these qualities.

How to find out? For some professionals
this is easy to do, and has been for a long time
what tests are carried out; e.g. television
Only a woman can become a phonist
who has normal hearing, willingly
nickname or soldier - only that person
who sees well into the distance, etc. But
it often turns out that what a person sees is
well, and he tries, and yet things don’t work out
as needed; turns out to be the reason for this
is that one good vision and hearing
in some professions there is not enough, you need more
something; I’ll explain with an example: a driver or a driver
the driver must drive along the street far enough
exactly quickly - and keep an eye on the street all the time -
tsey—sometimes’ move the engine faster, sometimes
slow down and sometimes go around; and so on all
day—the work is not easy, and it is clear that many
people who are diligent and have good eyesight
still can’t stand it for such a long time and

HARNESS

continuous tension of attention and after
several accidents forced
leave the service; that means, in addition to sight,

You also need constancy of attention; in other

Many professions require stable memory
(a footman in a restaurant serving in the information desk
bureau, scientist, etc.), savvy
ity and other spiritual qualities.
The question arises whether it is possible to determine
personality of one quality or another by
experience before entering the service; oka-
is called - quite possible, although not easy,
since this matter is new and complex; this
Psychological scientists became interested in the question
logs about 15 years ago, ‘but a strong pushto
psychotechnics (the science of choosing a profession)
received, as, indeed, other sciences,
only during the war; most developed
tia she achieved in Germany: for the Germans,
who fought almost against everything
world, in which every soldier was on
registration, especially in special forces, in
automobile battalions, in the air fleet, in
communications service, it was important to prepare such
There may be more specialists and it is possible
faster and cheaper; for this it was necessary
upon admission to the relevant courses
selection, accepting only those who
who had the necessary abilities. Not-
German 'psychological scientists by invitation'
the military department developed in detail
methods of testing drivers and organizing
have built 14 laboratories throughout Germany,
res which in 1917-1918. passed over
24,000 people; a special order was issued
according to the military department did not accept in the car
mobile battalions of persons who did not pass
tests in one of these laboratories. _
How were these tests carried out? A
here's how: first carefully researched
visual acuity (is there any myopia or
farsightedness), hearing acuity (is there depth
although) and other qualities; especially _ carefully
thoroughly experienced attention; subject
sat on a chair; there was a board hanging in front of him
with light bulbs, among which was one
red; he had a button at hand
electric bell; the lights came on
6*
84

Go R-s:

№1 (6)

and went out; if white or orange flashed
chewing light bulbs, the subject had to
stay calm if it catches fire
red light, then he must now
was to press a button; the speed of his “response”
was noted on a special watch—chronoscope—
in thousandths of a second; according to received
the numbers were used to judge whether the subject could quickly
respond with action to the appearance of a conditional
sign (in this case, a red light bulb,
in practice - on the street - passing
pavement of a pedestrian or oncoming motor)
and doesn't he get tired quickly? Conditions of experience
changed. The pilots were put to the test
for the cash they have the so-called “feelings”
balance", ‘since in practice oka-
it was said that pilots with poorly developed
sense of balance did not keep up with time
level the devices and smash them, and
often they themselves died; for every profession
special tests were developed.

At the end of the war, this business did not die out;
many industrial enterprises, foundations
resting “on the success of “military” tests,
set similar tests for their own
employees; they were invited by the largest
German scientists, and many enterprises
tia even concluded agreements with individual
psychological institutes and laboratories
riyami; among these enterprises we met
tea industry colossuses such as:
"Universal Electricity Company", "Si-
Mens and Schukkert", "The Society of Auer's Woe-
Lok", Berlin tram and many others. others.
Labor exchanges, societies of engineers, trade unions,
Prachi, the teachers are closely interested in this
business and thanks to widespread interest and non-
German perseverance managed to create
throughout Germany there are a number of special bureaus where
everyone is given advice on what kind of
they should choose a profession.

We see a similar picture in America.
ke: in the center of the steel industry

sti, in Pittburgh, a special
Trade Research Bureau;
it, among other things, sets itself the task of determining
division of suitability for various specialties
aspects of the trade business (sellers, travelers,
accountants, etc.); this is understandable: Ame-
During the war, the city displaced many
governments, from their markets and to serve
gigantically 'expanding external (and internal)
her) trade, she needed many de-
tens of thousands of people; this bureau is testing
by order of various companies (among them there are
world-famous companies—“Company
Ford cars", "The Westing Company-
uz" and many others) their future employees-
people; psychotechnics in America under the direction of
with the help of the largest scientists has achieved such
development, which is beneficial for many companies to carry
according to these tests, quite large
spending, but to accept into your service only
selected staff.

From all that has been said, it is clear that psychotechnical
Nika is already bringing,as a separate
ny people, businesses and everything 1-
incalculable benefits to the state; that's why
we need to introduce similar
tests, adapting them, of course, to the
our Russian conditions; instruments for testing
Metalworkers' traditions used in Germany
research institutes, have already been received in Russia in recent years =
logo of the year and the Central Institute of Labor 1)
at V.C.S.P.S. begins about
this job. .

Currently we cannot yet
anyone who wants to indicate that profession,
for which he is most suited, but no
doubts that in a short time quickly
developing science—psychotechnics allows
Let us make it easier for every person to decide
answering the most difficult question of life - what
the path in life you chose, what profession
choose.

K. Kekcheev.

1) Address of the Central Institute of Labor: Mo-
Skva, Petrovka, 24.

Y

a

®*

Professional movement.

}.

Among the working masses there has always lived a powerful
the will to enlightenment and knowledge. During
pre-revolutionary this will did not have for
itself as an “application point”. Lord of the world
the bourgeoisie, owning the instruments of production,
possessed knowledge. In the hands of the bourgeoisie,
knowledge was a terrible weapon. Aware
enormous power of enlightenment, the bourgeoisie does not
allowed the proletariat to approach him and “pu-
neck shot."

Playing philanthropy, she devoted “to

“Mazom” a small fraction of his generosity: in

Sunday and evening schools, different ages
and cultural and educational societies, in
people's universities bourgeois intellectual
license for the worker who made his way there,
"gave bits and surrogates of that falsified
citified knowledge, which in the bourgeois
society gave the right to the name “image-
bath" person.

The revolution freed the will of the working masses
to enlightenment. Taking the guns into our own hands
production, the proletariat immediately bro-
tried to storm the second citadel of the bourgeoisie
Asia - knowledge.

The unconstrained will of the proletariat
ata to knowledge in the post-revolutionary period
found its expression in spontaneous growth
cultural and educational institutions, s0-
built not only by will, but also by hands
the working masses themselves. At the very beginningthis is

* _ Cultural and educational work of trade unions.

construction was unorganized, dis-
dusty, artisanal.

But when the first wave subsided I could...
what's the rush, this is the construction of steel con-
centered around workers' organizations
tions - trade unions.

Directly and closely welded pre-
Most likely with trade unions, the working masses
all their cultural needs, all their own
needs in organizing educational
institutions were carried through the grassroots union
cells to local allied centers. And prof-
unions—through those created by them on demand
life itself, their cultural organs (cultural commissions)
these, cultural departments) with all their might to promote
let the masses united by him implement
to bring their will to enlightenment to life. It was
period of organization by cultural unions
ty for the working masses with will and creativity
by the workers themselves.

However, trade unions at this time could not
cope with the spontaneous-handicraft character-
rum of cultural construction.

As the proletarian apparatus strengthens,
Russian state, the education of the masses was
centralized in government agencies
education—Narkompros and its local
branches.

The trade unions could not help but realize that
during this period their cultural promoter
work, similar to educational work
work of the state and—separated from the state
states—leads to parallelism and extreme
86 _ G.O-R-N:

№1 (6)

him a dispersal of forces. This consciousness” is
was already in the decrees of the 2nd All-Russia -
of the Congress of Trade Unions.

(' from this moment the volume period begins
unity of cultural and educational work
trade unions with educational work of the state
the state represented by the People's Commissariat for Education and its organiza-
new on the ground.

The ultimate goal of unification is
there was a slight “coordination” of the cultural work of unions with
the work of the People's Commissariat for Education, the approach of organs
People's Commissariat for Education, through alliances to the broad masses
organized proletariat and—ultimately—
transfer of all educational work to
enlightened the state apparatus
scheniya. This would achieve, and the main
the task of the proletarian state in the field
enlightenment - centurieseducation
bots towards unity.

We will remain on the details of this “merging”
We won't pour in. Let us only note that
course for government educational bodies
tion of the final crystallization in
early 1921, when V.C.S.P.S.
“Regulation 0 cultural and educational
activities of trade unions” clearly established:
“that single construction (cultural work of M.P.)
can only be based on state bodies
donative educational work—organization
representatives of the People's Commissariat for Education," and announced a "combat mission
whose trade unions are currently
"strengthening of these organs."

Before this, the cultural and educational ra-
bot of unions without merging © educational
work of the state, should have naturally
but to replenish and expand it, preserving
a certain independent character. But
the conclusion made by V.Ts.S.P.S. was natural
successively different consequences
evolving process. (Those interested from-
I refer you to my article “Organization. forms
cultural work of trade unions" in the upcoming
as soon as possible in the publication of Rio V.C.S.P.S.
collection of articles “Cultural work of Trade Unions”).

From this moment on, the cultural organization
bots for the working masses starts from unions
retreat, moving to the bodies of the People's Commissariat for Education.
(Of course, only in principle, since in fact

Technically, Narkompros © this work is not
came in. More on this below).

The only thing left for the unions was
laying the foundation on which organs
People's Commissariat for Education, should have developed pro-
lighting work in wide working areas
masses. The task of the unions is declared to be organiza- |.
nization of the working masses for vultrabota:
practically this work is expressed in accounting
the needs of the masses for certain types
cultural work for submitting assignments to
People's Commissariat for Education, in the actual inspection of
getting them to work locally, promoting
cultural work and strengthening its mass
official bodies - Cultural Commissions under the Head of
komah.

Grassroots allied cultural organs must
were strengthened in order to approach
married to them purely preparatory
through the work of unions, the bodies of People's Commissariat for Education could
carry out through themwork immediately
especially in the thickness of the working masses.

The meager budget of the People's Commissariat for Education, extreme
lack of materials and manpower led to
to the fact that the bodies of the People's Commissariat for Education on the ground
could not cover in the required dimensions
rah work on education is organized
of the proletariat.

But those who were in full swing among the working masses
cultural needs demanded their satisfaction
satisfaction. And trade unions—massive
letarian organizations - it was impossible not to
respond to the will of the masses. They responded
repent.

In fact—in the overwhelming majority |
cases - practical cultural education -
trade unions carried out significant work, especially
their lower bodies are the cultural commissions at -
factory committees, although subordinating their work
ideological and scientific-methodological leadership
local bodies of the People's Commissariat for Education, why
they were forced by their centers. .

Close contact in working with Nar- }
compromise is a task that unions do not-.__
continuously and persistently sought to resolve
shat by highlighting their representatives
lei to the bodies of the N.K.P., joint development
Bots of plans, programs, etc.

4

H

Xena

4
Aniva

$7

$"

.

№10_

PROFESSIONAL MOVEMENT.

87

But in other places the weakness of the state
new educational apparatus reached
that the work of unions involuntarily separates
escaped from the influence of the bodies of the People's Commissariat for Education and pro-
was conducted, as they say, “independently.”

It should be noted that least of all this
noticed in the field of professional and technical
education. State apparatuses for
prof.-technical education were relative
but the most powerful of all the others
bodies of the People's Commissariat for Education, and here we can note
to act as a predominant, joint ra-
both unions and the state. Establishment
business contact was greatly facilitated by
that in the field of vocational and technical education
there was no uniformity in the work of the Prof.
education and unions.

Working in the same group on-
villages—organized proletariat—they
areas of work were demarcated.

On the unions represented by their Sekpors!) was
entrusted with the organization, institutions, implementation
presenting professional and technical education
workers, mainlythus, the lower etune-
her (short-term, evening and day-time courses)
schools, factory apprenticeship schools
stva, as well as extracurricular activities
character). All the rest of the work was
left to the Trade Unionists. Since the circle
everyone's work was clearly delineated
the independence of the work of unions was revealed
in a certain area, insofar as for non-
there was almost no room for misunderstandings, and the only
completely complete and giving a tangible
results from the work of cultural organs of the Union
the call was and is work according to the profession -
technical education, and now unions
cover with their direct influence
action and work of working faculties,
and the work of Higher Educational Institutions, etc.
branches of vocational and technical education.

The largest gap between unions and government agencies
education observed in the field of political
tiko - educational work. Work with
yuzov and political enlightenment was homogeneous and
but in essence and in form. Come here
the moose demarcated not ‘areas of work, but
those masses of the population in which it was necessary

carry out the work. For the unions to work it was necessary
select a group of organized flight-
riata, for the bodies of the People's Commissariat for Education; everything else-
ny population groups. In the beginning it was like that
done *). But © from the moment when out-
school work, as such, was abolished
nena and transferred to the rails of a systematic
political education © transform-
the presence of extracurricular departments in Political Education,
such disengagement became fraught
consequence. The only leader
political and educational work in all
layers of the population was declared Glaviolitiro-
light with its local organs, 'like 'direct
party organ in the ‘system of state
organs" 3). This situation imposed
“ye” to independent political-pro-
illuminating work of unions. However, for
actual powerlessness of local Political
lights, unions take on this work
still had to. From here - separation from the European Union -
noi political education work from the work of a government agency
new The contradiction between the fundamental
claims of political enlighteners and actual
Chinese state of affairseat after yourself
the continuous struggle of unions with political education
there, which further undermined the work,

Forced under inexhaustible pressure
Mase's needs and initiatives—take on
itself, contrary to the fundamental construction
niyami, live cultural and educational
work, cultural bodies of unions, whose forces
were no more, or rather, many times less
more, the forces of the People's Commissariat for Education, the work of this
could not cover. The work was carried out as we did
have already said, in fact, grassroots cultural
organs. unions-cultural commissions. Under them
leadership of the working masses of individual companies
acceptance by their labor and means, in pain
in most cases, with the help of means and -math-
rials allocated unofficially by the hosts
bodies of enterprises, organizational

!) Sections of professional and technical. education of workers.
These organs, being purely union organs,
work under trade unions.

1) See my article mentioned above. P.M.

3) Resolution X S, riding of R.K.P. about Gaavpolit-
lumen:
88

GOE

№1 (6)

clubs, schools, courses and other cultural
tourist educational institutions and departments
new undertakings (lectures, performances, etc.).
'In the process of this spontaneous cultural
construction, the masses reached out for help,
advice, guidance, first of all, everything
to the cultural departments of the unions. And lastly,
lei-nilly, I had to lead, for example...
to join, to unite. For lack of strength and"
means this work was disrupted, and from the snares
"handicrafts" by the will of objective conditions
I couldn't get out. ,

But one way or another, work, concentration
was in the cultural bodies of trade unions, grew
there is an urgent need to strengthen these bodies
and strengthen. Along with this, it was necessary to pre-
give them a certain freedom of action,
so that their work is not undermined by continuous
"relationships" with the bodies of the People's Commissariat
millet: without actually coping with it,
the latter with their powerless intervention
only slowed down the work of the unions.

At the 4th Congress of Unions the question arose
whole height. Resolutions of the Congress
stated that the cultural organs of the unions of their workers
that cover cultural work in all its
volume, recognized the need to strengthen and
strengthening the cultural paraphernalia of trade unions, &
also stipulated the need to provide
giving unions a certain independence
in the field of education of factory workers
proletariat. :

“In areas with special household and industrial
production conditions, where the organs of Na-
image, do not actually cover and cannot
can cover the work of allied organizations,
all cultural and educational work must
to be transferred to the cultural commissions of the unions
by agreement with Gubnarraz and People's Commissar -
millet." So says note 1 to paragraph 5
resolutions of the Congress on the issue of cultural work
unions. This “syndicalist” deviation is still
sounds more sharply in the resolution of the 1st All-Russian
of the Cultural Conference of Trade Unions. To this-
mu was pushed by the facts of life.

Currently being implemented
began the new economic policy sharply
changes the position of cultural work of unions.

/

But before moving on to the characteristics
new moment in the cultural work of unions, remains
new in content, it expired during the period
shy.

I.

The most complete and giving
significant results from the work of cultural organizations
unions had vocational education
workers.

In this area, unions through their bodies
in Trade Union-Sekpory—developed ` large
and hard work (we have already noted this)
began) to create short-term schools and
courses to improve the skills of workers.
The huge pull of the broad masses into these educational
establishments were very seriously undermined
the poor financial situation of the workers, which
forced them to give their strength for no purpose -
com training, and side infections
boots. The Republic was quickly covered,
a wide network of vocational schools. But
experience has shown that short-term courses provide
maybe not small in quantity, but
a completely insignificant increase in quality
definition of number. skilled workers
sneeze And little by little, especially towards the end
1921, a tendency began to be noticed in the unions
the desire to compress the quantity
vocational educational institutions, created
vaya long-term advanced schools"
deepening the content and qualitatively improving
their workthat.

Along with the direct organization
vocational educational institutions and ©0-
the action of workers in the organization of such,
on the initiative of the workers themselves, the unions led
and are still doing a lot of work on
development of the program, training plans, con-
performances, lectures, etc. educational and leadership
materials on individual industries
thinking for vocational schools and
courses. This work is carried out by advisory
bureaus and commissions under the cultural departments of unions,
which includes scientific specialists
members and representatives of unions.

At the beginning of 1921, the unions began to strengthen

special attention to working faculties and

short-term ^ y,

>

and 2

G

5

3%

No. 1 (6)

PROFESSIONAL MOVEMENT.

89

higher educational institutions, setting themselves
the goal of actually proletarianizing them
tion. The Union was allocated
a certain percentage of places in workers' faculties (pre-
possessing) and within ‘this percentage
unions, having arranged places according to production,
carried out staffing of faculty workers
comrade in the fall of 1921. They will do the same
In 1922, filling the workers' faculties
their members, trade unions have accepted the most
effective participation in material acquisition
appreciation of both the workers' faculties themselves and the students
com to put workers' faculty students in conditions
viii, at which they could be given
scientific work.

To ensure the influence of organized
of the proletariat to scientific and methodological
work of workers' faculties and administrative
important side of their lives, trade unions introduced
their representatives to the councils and pres-
Workshops of Workers' Faculties. The same thing is practiced
unions and in relation to higher education
ny establishments. There isn't any kind at all
vocational education, for which
unions would not exert their direct influence
significant impact. The end of 1921
walked under the sign of the factory organization
Vodian apprenticeship and worker training

``aodolstkov. Since the middle of the year, production

and

unions were engaged in registering teenagers, planned
points for organizing schools, developed
programs were introduced, etc. But they were deployed
work has becomeat the end of the year. This year
these types of vocational education are already
partially embodied, partially embodied
into life—shi-
extensive network of relevant schools\).

Of all types of cultural and educational -

work of trade unions the greatest quantitative
club work has gained greater scope and closely

library related ones. Club and bi-.

library powerful weapons of political pro-
glow if their work is organized

bathroom planned and systematic character-
4

*) Unfortunately, we cannot provide any
In honor of the illustration for our statistical material,
Stick data. The available data is not complete,
and therefore we omit them. M.P.

ter, but in conditions of spontaneous zhustarshchina,
with which they were powerless - due to the lack of
sufficient forces and environment - to fight and io-
literary enlightenments and unions, these types of work are
were born into low-quality out-of-school
shchinu.

Before 1922 there was not a single factory
ki, not a single plant, not a single one more or
smaller enterprise or institution
a situation in which I would not be organized
boch club. Along with these local famous
clubs - to a much lesser extent, however,
at least they opened clubs in districts and towns
minesweepers The latter were created ‘primarily
society with political enlightenments, while clubs
at enterprises—the working masses themselves
enterprises.

District clubs turned out to have little life
nym; they were poorly attended by the working masses,
who was much more willing to reach out to her
local clubs at enterprises.

In all clubs the theatrical
work. Here are the characteristic figures: incomplete
according to the data of the V. Ts. S. P. S. steel department,
compiled from brief reports from local
allied organizations, for the first quarter
1921 in department 1501: production
unions were held—4953 performances
A, 1501 concerts, 3022 rallies, 278 lectures
tions; in the last quarter of the same year
356 departments—1317 performances, 71 con-
cert, 676 rallies, 569 lectures. At the same time
in the first quarter of the year visited: performance
Lee—540,209 people, concerts—172,615,
rallies - 410.523, lectures - 136.891; in
last quarter - performances - 103.560,
concerts—43,752, rallies—54,646, lectures
tion—17.362 1).

There is a clear advantage along the entire line
theatricality over more or less seriousness
educational work (lectures).

Mugs that grew up in clubs. and stu-
the performances were also predominantly theatrical
nym. There were both musical and choreo
graphic, and choral, etc., but all this
the fruits of spontaneous handicraft. About in-depth

1) The numbers are average, approximate. M.P.

90

MOUNTAIN

No. 1 (6)

it is not necessary to talk about educational work
goes 1).

Quite tolerable attendance at rallies
explained by the fact that they usually have
such burning issues were touched upon
sy of the “current moment” that they could not
not even the most stubborn ordinary person will respond
Valel. But a rally is still a “propaganda”
ka", superficial excitation of the masses, and not
deep organizing educational work
bot, the goals of which are also pursued by the club.

As a result, the clubs did not fulfill their
appointments, and most workers remain
elk politically (in the broad sense of this
concepts) illiterate.

However, as local materials say,
in each club a certain
a group of workers who carefully
attended all lectures and reports, showing
special interest in production issues
social, political and
passionately scientific. Striving for more
demonstrated solid knowledge, most importantly
way, youth.

Despite; small, seemingly tri-
demands of the working masses, neither political enlightenment, nor
the unions could not satisfy them. This
contributed to the lack of strength and resources, with
oz side, inept approach to the masses -

© another.

Due to the lack of sufficient lecture staff
lectures in clubs were organized by the employees
tea for the occasion. There were intervals between
them at 2-3-4 weeks. There was a lack of leadership
circle drivers, and sprouts emerging
serious desire for knowledge involuntarily
went deaf. But even then, when there was strength, de-
It was spoiled by the inability to approach the masses.

The clubs' work program was outlined in price |

fuck— Cultural departments, Political enlightenmentah, build-
whether them, without applying to the features
of this production, nor to the requests of this
audience. They gave what they thought was necessary
give, but not what the audience wanted, instead

') In-depth work was carried out mainly
only in those clubs, circles and studios where
The bot was installed by Proletkuzt organizations. M.P.

moreover, what is necessary from the point of view
fundamental, develop unnoticed by
masses in the process of satisfying their own
special requests. Rarely was a layer heard
living word of the lecturer: more dry reading
scientific lectures.

All this separated club work from the masses,
and the masses—due to the absence of a living ra-
bots, which would attract them involuntarily, towards
They treated the latter extremely indifferently.
Club attendance was maintained. only
for tea and snacks. It's no wonder
poor club attendance reflected
also a difficult financial situation
workers. According to the steel department V.Ts.

P.S. -= incomplete, in the first quarter of 1921
of 2,331–332 members of unions (1,498 each from
divisions) the clubs were visited by 105,609 people,
in the last quarter—out of 610,299 members
unions (442 branches) - 15,956 people.

The end of 1921 was marked by the strengthening
a number of scientific and technical clubs that
must connect club work with production
tism and thereby bring it closer to the masses.
A little more experience, but definitely
says that this method of club work,
the honor of applying which belongs to the
whole trade unions, has had lasting success in
the broad working masses. x

Work closely related to club work
library Dissatisfied with the bi-network
library of political enlightenment, union masses, created
built its libraries mainly with
clubs of large enterprises.

These libraries were poor in books and
botniks, and therefore the roles of leaders
masses in the field of self-development do not play
could, especially given the narrowness of the goals, which
who set themselves the ones they usually had
workers available.

Library attendance is weak. When-
ranks: lack of books and inability of librarians
workers to involve the masses in the libraryflowing

In 1921, the strengthened complex began

development and use of mobile libraries”

zhek. According to the general opinion of all allied ma-
terials are the only living species
library work.

“l

No. 16

PROFESSIONAL MOVEMENT.

91

Fragmentary data and poorly organized
library statistics do not provide any information
the ability to establish answers to which questions
The worker is looking for millet in books. Reading
books on natural science; and by
history, hygiene, technology, professional movement
research, party work, but in general - libraries
serve as a storage place from where you can
draw mainly from fiction
"for a pleasant pastime."

Poor performance of factory libraries
it is clear in some part by the fact that

the majority of workers are still not

literate. Weak material and financial
supply of bodies of the People's Commissariat for Enlightenment
thorough work along the entire line, especially sensitive
really hits this job. In force
this unions were forced to undergo enormous
in most cases I took it. work on liquidation
giving illiteracy to yourself by organizing
enterprises "liquidation points". These
points were often supported by money
contributions from the union members themselves, often
economic bodies and served
entirely by the efforts of the competent members themselves
unions.

The artisanal nature of the work had its own

‚ the consequence is a strong relapse illiterate
`` sti. Attempts to combat this phenomenon
topics of creating new schools for adults, clubs

bov, libraries were not successful, because
there were no funds to expand the work and
The eradication of illiteracy is making great progress
slowly, but still moving, because
After all, it is recognized as a shock work.

b

Sh.

The weakness of cultural and educational work
you explained to the trade unions, mainly
zom, the lack of ma-
terial funds for the maintenance of cultural
institutions and cultural-non-pedagogical forces.

All material resources were combined
turned by the People's Commissariat for Education and its agencies. But
People's Commissariat for Education never has excess funds
shone, because he was always kept for a goalod-
rations, and the will of the working masses to pro-

I was heartbroken by this chronic pain
lack of funds.

The new economic policy has caused
transfer of supplies and financing of cultural
tour and educational work with funds
state educational authorities
local remedies. It was decreed
in relation to cultural and educational
institutions serving workers and their
children, paragraph two of the resolution of the Council
People's Commissar of September 16, 1921 in the document
ment "on measures to improve the supply
schools and other educational institutions
ny".

In development of this resolution of V.Ts.S.
I.S. entered into an agreement with V.S.N.H.,
according to which V.S.N.H. took over and
their local authorities maintenance costs
cultural and educational institutions at
factory enterprises in the amount
10% of all wages held
these enterprises'). True, despite all
its solidity and this source cannot
fully satisfy the needs of the organization
of the organized proletariat in a culturally pro-
lighting work.

But the unions won’t stop there.
foxed

Currently, an agreement is being drawn up
agreement between the V.C.S.P.S. and the Central Union and
Cerabkop who take over
supply and financing of cultural work
unions by deduction of a certain percentage
from turnover, all cooperative organizations.

Finally, the People's Commissariat for Education took over
obligation to supply and finance from
resources allocated to him in the first place
‘cultural work among trade union members\).

Along with this, the unions themselves are turning
for cultural work interest ‘deductions from
membership fees, income from paid cultural
tour and educational events (spectacular
takley, etc.), fines, etc.

In a word, cultural work now brings
the one she lacked was quite solid
and a solid foundation.

') See “Labor” No. 46-1921 and 9-p. g.
92

BURN.

No. 1 (6)

New economic policy, which
as we see, the cult begins to strengthen
the work of the unions—weakened the bodies of the People's Commissariat
millet, whose work remains—largely
its timety—on, state supply.

In this regard, it falls on the shoulders of the unions
almost entirely responsibility for education
the formation of an organized proletariat. And quite
it is not natural, therefore, that at present we can
ment cultural organs of unions almost entirely for-
busy with work to bring their cultural
tour and educational activities other
a new material basis, so as not to build
new building on the sand.

Even before the publication of the above
resolution of the Council of People's Commissars question © small-
real provision of cultural work from
funds of economic authorities, cooperation and the co-
uses in addition to those modest resources
himself, which Narkompros can release,
staged at the All-Russian Congresses of Unions.

Everything that was planned by congresses and conferences
tions of unions in this area of work, now
has already entered the phase of concrete resolution
sewing.

It should be noted that the new economic
politics has placed unions among
other issues and extremely acute and angry
daily question about cultural work at enterprises
in private and leased industry
ness. Until now this question has been completely
its resolution in living forms and methods
I didn't get a job, so what?
material support for this work, then
in this area, the Congresses outlined quite definite
divided line.

Enterprises of private and leased production
thinking must take upon themselves (half-
completely or in a certain part—this is also
not established) the entire economic side
maintenance of cultural institutions on each
given enterprise, what should be done
provided for in collective and rental agreements
in dialects

In connection with the new economic policy
who became unusually acute in front of unions
question about. eliminating illiteracy among
workers. A number of objective conditions,

generated by NEG, made for the worker
unprofitable investment of time for training in
liquidation points. Low tide illiterate-
nykh walked at an accelerated pace. But unions
took timely measures, establishing obligations
necessary and under the conditions of the NEP’ liberating
training of illiterate people for 2 hours before the end
work for classes in health centers withmourned
these hours based on average earnings.

Thanks in part to the NEP, unions have embraced
now with his work and the ‘area of social
good education of workers' children.

True, already at the 4th Congress of Unions (in
May 1921) on the issue of social re-
nutrition for workers' children was also provided
1st All-Russian Cultural Conference `Co-
uses - detailed. But it was allowed in
at that time only in terms of participation
providers in school areas. From the publication
forging resolution of the Council of People's Commissars, dated 16
September of this year (see above), unions are transferred
to direct work on creating
enterprises of schools [G and P levels and children's
institutions (unions, nurseries, etc.). Volia
“attaching” these ‘institutions to the pre-
acceptance rises higher and higher. Simultaneously
It is with this that children's unions are attached
schools and institutions not only to hozorga-

to us, but also to cooperatives and to ourselves. *

The “patronage of education” covered not only
to institutions of social education for children
tey, - attachment to economic authorities and pre-
acceptance also goes along the lines of vocational training
education and political-educational work
bots: technical schools are attached,
courses; factory training schools
quality; clubs, libraries, etc.

How will this attachment affect the ra-
bot of religious institutions, - it’s impossible to say yet -
perhaps, because the experience is still so insignificant,
which cannot be summed up. A rg1yum
we can assume that the results will be quite
not to meet the hopes that have risen
were ready to attach.

For now, as a positive consequence, it is possible
emphasize the reduction of the network of all cults
institutions due to quality improvement
their performance. `-

no

No.

‘
‹

to

$

No. 1 (6)

PROFESSIONAL MOVEMENT.

b 93

The brainchild of NEG?’a--economic calculation for-
set the unions to prove themselves in the field of culture
tour and educational work. Before
how to begin attaching cultural structures
expectations for one or another economic agency, unions
together with the economic bodies of the People's Commissariat for Education
conduct inspections of all cultural institutions
given area (province, city).

Institutions, having discovered theiryu not-
vitality, eliminated or completely
or merge with functional ones; remaining
are "alive" best equipped
and wealthy.

Combating spontaneous growth in numbers
due to the quality that is so ingrained in practice
unions, conducted in an organized and organized manner
measuredly. Inspection of cultural institutions
involves the broad working masses and organizations
ny R.K.P. Before the examination, often
`A propaganda campaign is underway, the goal
which—to explain to the masses the need
in the interests of full-fledged work, compress the network,
thereby ensuring its correct functioning
tion.

New things in economics inevitably put

cultural work of unions in new conditions. Cha-
statistically reborn in the environment of NETG
calistial relations post again

_stood in front of the trade unions at their full height
‘the main task is to organize workers

masses to protect their class in-
Teresov. The main task clearly defines
and all the secondary tasks of trade unions.
And increasing the cultural level of workers
mass cultural and educational work -
cannot and should not be something anymore
self-sufficient, pursuing narrowly enlightened
meaningful goals, but becomes organic
part of the overall work of unions in organizing
tions of the working masses as a class.

Posted by Ts.K.R.K.NP. about prod-
unions considers cult work specifically,
as one of the main points of makoi organiza-
nization of the working masses.

Raising consciousness in every worker

trade union member for active participation

his role in the defense of trade unions of class
interests of the organized proletariat -

this task must now be unconditionally
all cultural work of the unions will be carried out.

’ According to this, we must change, not
may not change, forms and methods ©0yuz-
no cultural work.

At the moment, the front is being rebuilt,
cultural work of unions in this direction and
coming. This has been rebuilt into concrete forms -
the situation has not yet poured out, although some
torture to resolve the issue already exists. FROM
the most successful of these attempts is
attempt by the Southern Bureau of the V.C.S.C.P. S. on
Ukraine.

Having accepted the organization of the working masses as
tolassa, in the process of cultural work for the rod
cultural work of unions, - Southern Bureau and announces
the main task of the cultural departments of the unions of pro-
propaganda of the trade union movement, i.e. educational-
organizational alliance work through the use of
use of methods and forms of cultural-pro-
lighting work. For this purpose, when
Cultural departments should create special
al organs—prophagitprops, which are
They take on this task entirely themselves.

And, putting the propaganda of professional
movement in the broadest sense of this
concepts, unions cannot be refused, it is clear
from organizing cultural work themselves, from
creation of cultural institutions for workers and
their material support.

But this direct live work
on the creation of cultural institutions of the Southern Bureau
V.Ts.S: P.S. transfers the cult from the top
the work of unions, cultural departments - to the bottom,
into the depths of the broad working masses.

Cultural institutions must grow in accordance with
in response to the requests of the working masses; only
those of them may exist that
have a basis for a certain pro-
letarian public. Creative
the breakthroughs of the working masses will now be able to find their
implementation, because under them
a sufficient material basis has been provided
and since the work will be united by the Cult
commissions at Factory Committees. The leaders
bodies of cultural work of trade unions, helping and
finding funds for its implementation, and managing
translation, the center of gravity of his work is translation
94

BURN.

No. 1 (6)

worn to involve the working masses in culture
tour construction, on the one hand, and
to organize their class consciousness
on the basis and in the process of this work -
on the other. -

This is—in quick strokes—the point of view
Southern Bureau of the V. Ts. S. P. S. for cultural work
unions ‘in new conditions. Course taken
Ukraine, taken correctly. Individual organi-
roughness during life
howl of work will be erased.

Before the cultural work of the unions, as we see
The bench press, the tasks are not at all homogeneous
related to the tasks of government bodies
enlightenment. If the latter manages to capture
work to educate the broad masses,
unions use those created by Nar bodies-

compromise of cultural institutions and all development
my latest work for permission
its main task. If the organs of Nar-
compromise with this work as before (&
that’s where it’s going) they won’t be able to cope, the workers themselves
masses under new conditions of cultural work
will deal with it. The cultural departments of the unions,
combining this work of theirs, they use it in
side of the class union of workers
the masses involved in it: ;

In this state of affairs there is everything
reason to believe that the period is fundamentally

pial “conversations” and “relationships” 2

for the cultural work of the unions ended, and she
enters the phase of his living creative
development.

M. Polin.

Workers' clubs under the new economic policy.

To properly assess the prospects of the club,
construction, with the new economic
policy needs to carefully examine
val position of the clubs at this point,
and also impartially understand those
reasons that led our club
the matter is in the sad state in which
we find him.

Personal observations in Moscow and other cities
childbirth, questionnaires, and reports
heads of club political departments
Evetov ‘at various congresses and councils
plans give us every opportunity
assert that in four years of our
cultural construction is just a club
the case yielded the least results. And between
the number of clubs has increased with each
day and, in the end, accepted such co-
Loss sizes, which frightened all the cultural
institutions. and long before the NEP for-
set them off to sound the alarm. We need to be honest
admit that in this spontaneous growth the club
there was definitely a desire for

‚ entertainment, not educational IL

creative work, which is why most
clubs throughout R.S., HF. S.R. accepted

lectures, meetings. At these clubs there are

same type of premises, in which
performances, dances, and occasionally

drama mugs were played from the middle
employees who staged Ostrovsky, Gogol
or, even worse, any waste paper from
supposedly working life. All this was planted
from above, no amateurworkers’ activity.”
no participation in creative or organizational
there was no nationalization work. Where are the reasons
this deep perversion of the whole being

club work? “First of all, you need them =

looking for in a difficult malerial situation
workers, which left them no time
suga, no spiritual forces for cultural ra-

bots, then in the distraction of work- —

nicks to other fronts, in general devastation
etc. All these reasons hit here
with particular force, since extracurricular activities
bot (very carelessly) was always installed
to the last plan.
First of all, it should be noted that while
time, as clubs are quite generously supplied -_
huddled together
events, concerts and performances, hosts

from the center with instructors and lectures" |

their material and material base is almost 0- |

%^.

c.

No. 1 (6)

PROFESSIONAL MOVEMENT.

95

was completely absent. There were no clubs
in which it would be possible to implement electronic
mental requirements necessary for ta-
what kind of work: cozy, comfortable and convenient
an attractive looking room. Ho-
lod, dirt and smoking stoves haunted
worker in the club just as at home.
If there was a warm club somewhere
premises, then this is a theater in the workers' barracks
max, consisting of one room and not
who had basic opportunities for
development of club work. It is natural that
a worker among the masses without being drawn into the club, -
Sometimes only youth circles worked there,
attracted by interest in art, and 060-
especially to the theatrical. Unfortunately, almost
nowhere in clubs except Proletkult clubs,
this craving for art was not used,
to create sustainable creative
lectives © sufficiently developed class
consciousness, which, undoubtedly, now, in
revelry Na, would have made a big difference
for the proper direction of cultural work.
This happened because the leaders
bodies (lately Political Education),
satisfying colossal requests for all
any kind of specialist instructors, not
had the ability to neither control nor
instructed his specialists, and they led
hacky in all senses,A; at its best
case, cultural work. At the hand
leading organs were not developed and
methods of work, there was no firm ideological
base, and self-confident disdain
sensitivity to the methods of proletcult work
bots as “non-massive, artificially high-
growing some kind of proletarian culture
tur", prevented them from borrowing from these me-
tods everything suitable for use in shi-
rocky masses. In the end, this template
work, led to the fact that in circles at
workers' clubs often found neither
one worker, since the suppressed pre-
ascending in terms of development level of intelligence

agents from among the employees and, not finding anything in-

interesting in the work itself, as it was carried out in
these circles, workers left the circles.

Survey of club work in the first po/lo-

<

inclined

wine 1921 in Mobkwe, produced by Mo-
Skovsky Proletkult showed that even
in such an advanced union as the metal union
sheets, circles at workers' clubs numbered
A very small percentage of workers were employed.
Nothing was done for the public
political training of members of these circles
kov, at least, nowhere except in the flyovers
cult studios and others who worked on
their method, was not entered into the program
no socio-political or even
general educational subjects; almost
nothing has been done to create the necessary
my repertoire. Naturally, there is no
positive result for cultural
movements of the proletariat about these circles have
couldn’t, but under NET conditions they got
purely negative. meaning.

If, despite all this, clubs could still have
first some cultural significance, then,
thanks to the fact that the government has spent
large amounts of money were allocated for mass
bot: lectures, concerts, performances that
in a very small wall, far from proportional
rationally spent on them,
but still they gave some enlightening
new results. Thus, in new
living conditions workers' clubs among 'their masses'
entered without strong traditions, without method-
depth of workand at extreme sha-
block, very expensive and not reaching
sufficient results using mass methods
work. With such an inheritance, it is quite natural
It is clear that the clubs, overwhelmed by the wave
petty-bourgeois cultural skills, e
one side, and crushed by the material
insecurity—<© another, rolled along
planes of dances and quick work,
the revelry of which is so characteristic of the expired
neck winter of 1921-22

Turning now to an analysis of the conditions in
which I learned, now it’s club work, not
it is necessary to keep in mind, however, not this
a passing moment, but a general trend
development for the coming years. Before
all it is necessary to indicate is that `malerial-
the situation of workers has significantly improved
it was, however, not enough to give”
96

OR

they will have enough in the near future
amount of leisure time for cultural work
or induce them to take on the cost of this
work. But in any case, with the current
the lack of security for government workers
sneeze their receptivity and interest -
activity in cultural work undoubtedly goes into
side of increase. This confronts us
with all the urgency of the question of the need
the existence of workers' clubs, because where
Otherwise, a worker in modern conditions can
viah, when bourgeois culture has everything
opportunities for your development, find strength
for the cultural struggle against it, for the development
The theory of class consciousness and those elements
proletarian culture, without which in general
it is not conceivable to achieve common goals
Letariat? Not in academic TV
rah with their tinsel junk, not in the movies
and various ‘theaters that have grown as
mushrooms for the entertainment of ordinary people. If
we will also remember that working youth
dezha grew up already in the era of class struggle-
if only her revolutionary consciousness could be
developed only by deep Marxist
preparation, that workers' faculties are very
few of the working youth, it is clear that
the question of the existence of workers' clubs,
there is a question of further development of the pro-
Tara culture, training workers for pre-
achievement, their ultimate goal. Absolutely
it is clear that with materialoh, and with the organization
tionary, and from the methodological side, these
clubs must be placed perfectly
differently than before.

Let us dwell first of all on the material
nom position of the clubs. Government agencies (including
including Proletkult) is now so limited
limited in funds by a “hard” budget,
that they can barely contain an extremely narrow
leading apparatus and minor in-
structural staff for servicing non-
a large number of demonstration clubs. Co-
maintaining religious institutions, including
clubs are entrusted with economic bodies;
this is the attachment of religious institutions for-
has already been carried out to date
ment in almost all professional

unions, but in fact the deductions are
ganami made very minor, day-
gi are almost never received, but received
nye are primarily used on
children's institutions and professional
education. Thus, clubs for non-
with major exceptions we received almost no
no funds. Any financial jam-
ka, every interruption in our unregulated
economy first of all “hits the culture”
work. But nevertheless the line is drawn
correct and anchoring of clubs to the plant
enterprises have the only carrier
opportunity for their work. At the same time, attach
captivity must be broken, however, the whole _
a number of fundamental prejudices... First of all
we must remember that the club must be ma-
materially provided so that he
could compete in its comfort and convenience
with all sorts of theaters and cafes, where

This account has everything covered. Conduct work
in an unequipped club, which means helpless

I ended up wasting money and energy. Neither-
what hopes for income from performances and
dance evenings were assigned not to follow-
blows, since the desire for these incomes
leads the club down an inclined plane, pulls back
nods to serious workers and nullifies
all ideological work. This is brilliant
proven by the experience of past years, when many
some clubs due to lack of funds or
the ineptitude of the cultural commissions practiced this
way to generate income: all these clubs
no cultour work was not carried out and

enjoy a very bad reputation among the
barrels. In general, factory malteri clubs

were always supported more due to
enterprises, but now, when they themselves
enterprises switched to economic accounting
and they have to pay for, all economic
new accessories, factory management has already
are not nearly as generous with natural sleep -
clubs and all material supplies
it must be done according to the club’s budget
without any hope of being successful
snatch something from the plant besides the estimate.
It must be remembered that the club’s estimate
in size cannot go now

№1@® “

to

1
I

|

}

No. 1 (6) PROFESSIONAL MOVEMENT. 97
in comparison with those costs, which, having satisfied their estimates almost half-
were produced at their factories earlier, but 1).

because for proper functioning
club, when attaching it you must
have in mind not only material
supplying clubs, but also servicing them
economic staff and minimal co-
number of instructors (have, for example, obligatory
deliberately attached one lecturer-
Marxist). The money collected is “all-
what spectacles that can now be
regulated at least from the content side
zhaniya, will thus be used to supplement
work (increasing the number of studios
it. etc.), but not to the main one.

It is clear, of course, that the staff must be
really ‘minimal and necessary
give up old habits
salaries for an entire army of theater workers
sneezes and unnecessary stewards. Two faces
administrative staff (one culture-
nickname, another business manager), one servant,
one or two specialist instructors and one
lecturer (instructors and lecturer can be
taken jointly by 2-3 clubs), - here’s the pop-
simalal stand for clubs of large size
acceptance paid by factories. In non-
big clubs this state may still be

‹colored (but in no case at the expense of

ector).

It is also clear that since economic
lack of organization will not provide an opportunity in the near future
in the coming years, deduct entirely for cultural
clearanceeffective work the required amounts,
the number of clubs should be thoroughly matched
edited. Unions must produce this
‘abbreviation without any sentimentality and
passion for quantity at the expense of quality,
firmly remembering that the club needs or contains
It’s a pity to close it completely or completely.
Any orientation towards the NEP, towards social
club income should be excluded
absolutely for the coming years. Therefore
any release of funds to any club
will not save this club by half and
cuts the rest. In this respect it is quite
Moscow took the right position
beginners, reducing clubs to a minimum

Horn No. 1 (6).

Let us now turn to the question of leadership
versity of club work. Some Cult
commission, especially where there is no communist
of the majority, understood the matter this way
way that, translating the work into content
factory, they are freed from all
norms, methods and principles of work, which
they were obliged to carry out when they received
funds were channeled through government agencies
us. Characteristic in this regard are the words
old proletcult workers at
places (especially in the province), when they need to
was that due to the “cruel” budget,
Froletkult is unable to pay from them
instructor work: “take on something
They may take payment from the factory, but
what kind of work will they force us to do—from
Proletkult and, in general, from the enlightenment
there will be nothing left for new work.” Action
at first, it is more than justifiable
gave this guess. All employees on
in places it seems they forgot that mining
means are not an end in themselves and what is new
politics does not remove their concern at all,
about the communist education of the masses. But to
Fortunately, sobering up is already beginning, and
the consciousness awakens that scattered si-
lamy of individual cultural commissions further
you won't go on tours because you have control over
specialists, give them proper instructions,
forge new methods of cultural work, co-
figuratively new conditions, the cult is beyond the power
commissions. At least in Moscow
Proletkult are receiving more and more frequent requests. statements,both from those who were in his charge Proletkul-
com, and from other large factories and
factories with an offer to take over

') The most dramatic reduction should be
carried out in major urban centers where
it is quite possible to unite in one club very
many factories and factories. In the counties where fa-
bricks at a considerable distance from each other
and where club work is the only type) of cultural
work, it is necessary to expand the club network beyond
city account.

7
98 Gore:

No. 1 (6)

manual. cultural work with the fact that all
payment will be at the expense of the enterprises. On those
the cultural commissions, which have not yet sobered up,
suffered from the NEPSH's eternal intoxication, the trade unions
there are means of influence, because it has been established
establishment of a network of institutions and distribution
the environment for cultural work is in the hands
their cultural departments. Since organizational
management of club work with the power of new
conditions found itself in the cultural departments of the profeo-
call, insofar as \uni must use
this provision is so that by instructions,
conferences, etc. consolidate in the mind
cultural workers on the ground, that the new eco-
nomic policy obliges only up to
to a certain extent, reconsider the forms, huh?
work methods, organizational relationships
solutions, but not the very content of the development
bots, which has the ultimate goal of developing
tie of proletarian culture. Of course, alone
instructions and conferences to do a lot
It's impossible. Practical guidance is needed
leadership, development of work methods, support
“training of instructors and workers on the ‘me-
stakh, the creation of a cultural basis for this
bots, for example, books, films, slides
tives, organization of material conditions,
warehouses for all kinds of benefits, etc. It’s true that
These are all cultural departments of unions, I have almost no
devices, you can’t do it yourself
forces (especially even with the tendency to reduce
tion of the allied apparatuses, which outlines
was at the metalworkers' congress) and it is clear that here
the only way out of the situation is to
nal union of trade unions with proletkult, where
there are appropriate culture apparatuses
work and four years of experience in this workbots among the proletariat. But I must say

that here it’s not just about representation

information or information, and, most importantly,
zom, about joint practical work,’ about
complete unification of the cultural forces of both
another organization, about the full leadership
on the part of Proletkult, the whole business is building
of workers' clubs. —

Moving on to the question of. working methods in
new 'conditions, we will stop first
only in the notorious mass work, in

the absence of which is usually reproached about
letkult. It has already been indicated here that everything
our cultural institutions spent on this
work a lot of effort and money. Lectures, dis-
fetters, concerts, performances free pre.
were delivered to the workers, and indeed to everything else - _
nu. Now it is not only impossible to put
free art work, but also.
lecture work, least demanding
expenses, the price should be reduced to a minimum
muma, since the budgets of all cultural institutions

they leave almost no environment for her. g

Regarding artistic productions
professionals, then their cost cannot
be covered in medium sized clubs
even with the highest ticket prices.

But is there any need to lament the fact that
past abundance of this work, in the form
how was it given, is it impossible now?

In fact, the lecture work, which
staged in workers' clubs, or meetings
government, or academic, not systematic
sky, soon led to completely empty
audiences; and even with more correct
the production would hardly have been given much re-
results, since the cultural level of se-
redneck - worker too low, ‘total
susceptibility Due to fatigue ‘on-_
reduced so much that it is from very rare.
lectures the worker took out something equal-
valuable in your time and energy. Besides
the presence of full opportunity to carry out
time is different (plays, movies, dances) without
mental tension also had
great importance for the development of indifferent
workers' attitude towards what will give
lecture. What is the last reason playing?
unimportant role, it is clear from the fact that in
counties where the most lecturesmuch less often and
where there is no entertainment, lectures are
are dealt with by workers much more willingly, and are successful
the lecturer gathers the audience in several
about a hundred people, whereas in the city she
does not exceed 6 0— 100. Since now,
with the rampant petty-bourgeois element of Kolya"
quality of all kinds of light entertainment
everything is increasing, it’s clear what to consider _
lectures as a method of mass work and distribution

]

-&

at

№1 (6)

PROFESSIONAL MOVEMENT.

th

99

read on them as a means for re-
nourishment of class consciousness, in the present
there is no time.

The concerts were not popular at all.
popularity among workers, which is difficult to
say people who are not close to this matter,
especially if we take into account
then the colossal number of concerts that
that has passed over the years. Ordinary
group concerts with light, unpretentious
the program provided entertainment, but not pro-
making a strong impression, did not attract
attention and interest of workers, since
performances. Serious cycle concerts
(compiled from the most available
` ease of rooms), although they created for themselves
some clubs where they systematically
conducted, robust and serious audits
ries, but in general still small, and wide
the masses even treated them as hostile
zhebno; at least to the instructors
clubhouses often received statements from
cultural commissions that workers are asking to put
instead of a concert there is a performance. This is also evident from
that now, when, despite the
shit, plays are still staged in the world
clubs - concerts have completely disappeared. Not
not to mention that regular concerts

“I couldn’t help in general education

A"

` Bottom line, they are, by their ease and stereotypedness,

programs were not for the general public and
that general educational and educational
significant meaning that music usually has.
Now the material conditions are absolutely not
provide opportunities to lead seriously in clubs
new concert work for those small
groups who have become interested in it
before, and as a means of mass work
now at the endIt’s not a good idea to calculate traits.
goes.

Speaking about concerts, we have to remember
a thread about the dances that usually accompanied them.
In steel about working methods, of course, you can
It would be better not to mention this issue if

uh_ if only with the light hand of Comrade Tomsky, who abandoned

to

at one of the meetings a catchphrase
"let the worker dance", some
Allied cultural workers did not see these

dancing is almost a panacea for all ‘under-
stats of club work. Four year old
experience, . however, it definitely shows that
there were no examples of the public coming
go to the club for... in order to dance
got carried away by club work and would come to,
lecture or group. In this way, how
as a means of attracting audience to the club
you can’t count on dancing, but oh
educational or about any other
the meaning of dancing in that form; how do we get them
We eat in workers' clubs, he's unlikely to come
to speak in the head of the most zealous of their defenders -
nicknames The question of dancing, then,
comes down to the question of ways to eliminate them
dation and replacement with some more satisfactory
creative 60 from all points of view of physics
tical exercises.

Let us now move on to the assessment of that type
work, which, one might say, personifies
represents all the cultural work of these years.

_If we needed symbolically

present the very essence of this work,
as she walked both above and below, she should
would be depicted in the form of a dramatic performance
chesky circle staging the play Ostrov-
sky. When analyzing this type of work, we
Let’s not distinguish between the performances of professional actors
from the productions of drama clubs, Since according to the
There was no difference between them to society. Pro-
Letkult regional studios, & also.
some union and factory studios and
circles (for example, in the Union of Communal Workers
in Moscow), who wore a more serious and
ideological character, were
I'm spitting in a sea of wild theatricality and
mass survey cannot count: Ca-
the sore point of our modern
theater - the repertoire has hardly moved beyond
these years are off the ground. Infinite, yeah
the observable kingdom of Ostrovsky and GogOlya
(farces, light comedies) of remote provinces and
only attempts to create a revolutionary re-
pertoire, on the other hand, it is clear; that the Island is
Russian, for all its importance in Russian
Russian literature, could not play any
roles in social and political affairs
education of the club audience and even more so.
7*
100

E-9-RI:

№1 (6)

in the propaganda of the new proletarian
everyday life, which forms the basis of club work
you. As for the plays of the revolutionary re-
pertoire, then they were built, mainly
zom, on, revolutionary pathos (sometimes purely
verbal) and in their content were
often deeply individualistic. Creating
sometimes revolutionary mood, they don't
could still contribute to the development
collective consciousness. K№ revolutionary
the plays were considered to be those that were used
widespread and also deep
individualistic plays, nar., Andre-
Eva "Savva" and "At the Lower Depths" by Gorky. But it is necessary
to say that even this insignificant
revolutionary repertoire. lost a lot
part of its influence thanks to bad
amateur performance. With artistic
on the other hand, most district spec-
tactics were below average and, ©9b-
frankly speaking, nothing to do with
art ‘didn’t have. Professionals in
the productions were incredibly botched,

circles under the leadership of the same ones.

professionals, mostly from the Ma-
theater logo, having created a play in one or two weeks,
not understanding its content, not knowing the roles,
having no equipment, they presented on stage
a very pathetic sight. They suffered especially
revolutionary plays, as heroic
the figures were completely unsuccessful
tsam. "Sava"; for example, placed in this
seeing that Savva himself and other heroic
the figures evoked boredom and disgust, the thought
the play was not captured, and remained in memory
Only the figures of monks were visible. In "King" Yush-
Kevich, thanks to the same game, the most
The manufacturer attracted the greatest sympathy from the public
and did not make any impression
revolutionary fighters.

Therefore, even this work, which
tends to produce the strongestoh first time
chatting, and which, if properly positioned,
Novke could have a huge educational
significance, did not produce significant results,
and often even intensified it. narrowly philistine
mood with his preaching of home

comfort and image
personal clashes.

Thus, none of the types of mass
howl of cultural work in the narrow sense
this word. didn't really give anything
essential for public education
of the working masses, and if the consciousness of the workers
developed and moved forward, then by this we oblige
interested in the entire course of our revolutionary action
reality, which posed unprecedented challenges
before the working class, our propaganda campaign
niyam, a mass of newspapers that came in abundance
to the workers. Now that the NEP is increasingly
changes our life in the direction of increasing small-
bourgeois tendencies and when new conditions
everyday life is far from conducive to development
communist consciousness, to the share of the most
cultural work necessarily decreases
much more responsible task. She's three
there are new methods, just like the old ones
we have already seen, we turned out to be completely un-
capable of performing this task and in the past
them, more suitable conditions. One
one of these methods is systematic
serious ‘conducting mass work through
deep work and with its help. In each
home club should first of all be ©03-
stable groups (circles, studios) are given,
who, having themselves carried out serious work in the field of
science and art, would put it as their
task of conducting mass work. Here's the
what, speaking about the staff of the club, we indicated
as an absolutely necessary constant
staff of one to three specialist instructors
and a Marxist lecturer. They must lead
work with the circles so that they don’t
necessary training to conduct mass
political and educational work; at the same time,
Of course, the work of the circles should not be lost
nor its character as a creative laboratory
ries of proletarian culture not serious
approach to the matter.

When conducting mass political
lighting work through creative
we must take into account and useovate
that colossal craving for dramatic action
the strength shown by the working masses, for

small world
>

m9.

No. 1 (6) PROFESSIONAL MOVEMENT. 101
these 4 years, but it still shows now, with poor technical skills and political preparation. By
shaking all the difficulties of satisfying this question of how the situation should be

needs at the moment. Need-
but use interest in theatrical
forms, investing in them the content that
which is necessary for political and educational

`work, to combat the petty-bourgeois way of life
everyday life, to promote amateur performances. This

could not be achieved, as we have already seen
Delhi, with the repertoire that everyone gave
these years. Therefore, you need to lean on it. not
for ready-made plays, but ‘for improvisation,
staging, the so-called live ha-
Zetas, courts, disputes, etc. All these
forms were known in mass practice
work, but their use was clean
random and their construction is far from consistent
perfect. For example, a living newspaper
was that the same newspaper news
read aloud by one or more
mi faces with the addition of a few ordinary
military attacks on headquarters or local
institutions and sometimes accompanied by ki-
nematograph; the courts were given in the form of a dispute
between the prosecutor and the defense attorney. But
In reality, these forms could still attract
to kill the audience, but due to the lack of artistic
could not leave the deep element
lateral interference. Yes, and in this form they are
were rarely staged in clubs, as the organi-
were called from above and showed up in places
large public gatherings. In order to-
would these forms of work take on the character of their
bouncy, deeply artistic and completely
theatrical improvisations on those topics that
ry interests the worker and which we want
tim to introduce him to the revolutionary mark-
sistic, & non-philistine lighting,
a lot of thoughtful work is required
club groups; well prepared
natural and technical (in the field of art)
and politically. Material from newspapers, ships, etc. d.
should be worked out in a completely literary manner,
ok pa novelist with socio-political
side and placed in the highest degree
artistically. This requires
presence of at least two studios,
literary and dramatic, with good

a living newspaper has been introduced, we have experience in
other clubs, and it is especially interesting
the work of one proletkult studio, according to
publishing a newspaper “about the famine.” Whole newspaper
represented a number of theatrical im-
provisions (in costumes and makeup) who gave
in a lively dramatic form in accordance with
interaction with regular newspaper sections (editorial,
chronicle, etc.) scenes depicting different
measures of hunger and the need for assistance,
the state of affairs of assistance in our country (among various
layers) and va, border (Meeting of the Entente on
this issue), assistance from the area
(general meetings at factories are also on this
about). There was also a review of this
newspaper, where in a very interesting life
scene (near the tram) different segments of the population
revealed their attitude towards hunger and yes
evaluate the entire newspaper. Very curious
and a “religious” newspaper, where, along with malicious
daytime moments (a number of interesting
provisions on the topic of confiscation of valuables)
materials on
the question of the essence of religion. Here they can
be used and finished products
ideas on this topic, such as, for example, very in-
fresh plays by Comrade Volkov “The Lord is Sleeping”,
“The Lord is Away”, etc. In general, a newspaper,
must be built so that from evil
questions of the day go to related questions
with them to broad public concerns.
Newspapers and courts should not be dedicated to
only political issues, but also issues
culture itself, life and others. Newspapers with
such abstract content can
take longer to prepare and are possible
for performance by beginning studios,
whereas the rapid change of political
existence forces very hasty preparation
production of newspapers with political content,
what requires fully trained
collectives and what is possible only because of this
in the second year of existence in the club,
working circles. Undoubtedly, in
built andhow newspapers, courts
etc. the negative image predominates
108

t:

№1 (6)

life, as the most easily perceived
audience and easier to implement in terms of content
zhaniya and form for studios located
at the first stage of his work. In order to
to give in living artistic form
embodiment of the proletarian life idea
ala, you need, of course, a large, countable one
years of preparation for both the actor and the viewer. Co-
Of course, in some cases it is necessary
now (when, for example, a dramatization is going on,
someone revolutionary movement) yes-
positive for the present mo-
cop images. Combat impression and inestimable
of newspapers and courts is extremely large.
In one club, where both professionals and
their own circle very often staged
very inartistic productions, was
staged trial of worker Ivan Khal-
Turshchikov (lover of hack work). As
The authors were also witnesses, insulted
plagued by the distortion of their works on
this scene and the torn dramatic
art, and individual scenes from staged-
Xia performances. Despite the distraction
the topics, the essence of the issue, were completely clear
for all workers, caused a certain
criticism of what was usually presented to them
in performances and with further deepening
this question will undoubtedly lead to the right
sound understanding of issues of art and
public (criticism of the court did not concern
only the games, but also the content of the performers
xia works).

How about, an interesting example of use
studio improvisations for mass ra-
bots we will point to the experience of proletkults -
judge in one of the printing clubs
cov. When one of the State standards
The count recently (already under NEPO) visited
its old owner, office and part of the work

I met him with joy and servility
steem. Some indignant studio members
brought this motif to the studio and it was
created in grotesque, semi-cinematic
improvisation on this topic in a technical form.
(negligent attitude to business v. usual
time, and then zeal and servility,
when did he appearformer owner). This one is
catering staged in other people's clubs,
caused laughter and indignation among the conscious
workers, and in his club along with laughter
caused a great feeling of embarrassment among those
who recognized themselves in this improvisation and,
how many workers were involved there, probably
discouraged them from further expressing
tender feelings in front of the previous owner.

There is no doubt that all these forms must
be still revised, work. delivered
systematic and its experience is taken into account, but ©0-
it is absolutely clear that since we are leading into
clubs artistic work, she should
be closely connected © with the main tasks
club and relied mainly on his
creative teams. 'Now we will stop-
poured in only on one side of the club
work; took into account the possibilities that it gives
we need the correct production of artistic
work; the task of further essays is—for now—
hall both on the basis of the same method (test
new interaction between in-depth mass
work) must be used for co-
final goals of club educational work
scientific, technical and other types of work,
what, finally, should be the character of the
of the collectives themselves, so as not to lose
in view of their creative tasks, they could
fulfill your responsibilities towards
to the broad working masses.

R. Ginzburg.

See
_ atra;

Art.

———

About the workers' theater.

What should a workers' theater be like? Ka-
What are his immediate tasks? Here are the questions
who are increasingly facing change
part of the working class. Fact of existence
of the 1st Work Theater of the Flying
cult and a wide variety of judgments and
opinions about this fact are enough
clearly emphasize the awakening living
and an active interest in workers' theatre.
Some people have a negative attitude towards ra-
bochemy movement in art and in every way
trying to prove quite ancient
the thought of the eternity of art, of extra-class
knowledge of aesthetic emotions and their forms.
It would be easy to answer this thought
unfulfilled goal and meaningless waste
that time. During the years of the revolution this
about too muchcom found out many times and in-
I refer those interested in them to the appropriate
relevant articles and magazines (see at least all
Proletkult literature) and protocol
lamas of countless discussions on art.

Others, taking a class point of view,
deny the Workers' Theater as much as it pro-
is currently denying it
artistic direction, deny it
principles of quest.

On this negation, which has a big
interest, we should go into more detail.
The main objection put forward by
The slogan of the Workers' Theater is that:
all productions of the Moscow Workers' Theater
Proletkult, wear “futuristic-

skilful”, incomprehensible and “obscuring the content”
"zhanie" character. Those. in other words then
artistic direction of “left art”
stva", from which M.R.T.P. (Moscow Rab.
Proletkult Theater) took something for its
productions, does not meet artistic standards
workers' requirements. "It's too difficult for them
understand what they see and hear
shat,” one of the representatives told me
transport workers. (There are other
some opinions, but more on them later). So it's bad
hard course M.R.T. CPU. unsatisfactory
worthy, in the opinion of some comrades.
Let's figure it out. First of all, let us note the amazing
significant fact that, for example, such post-
new ones, like the “Kedrov Sisters” in Maly Te-
atre or, like an old operetta, go with
“beat gatherings”, and these performances are
the players go with pleasure, and these performances
do not cause protests against’ “inconsistency
ideology" or against "not working
what artistic direction? But
everyone knows what the ideology of the “Sisters” is
Kedrovs" and what an honest pavilion looks like
he is the scenery of the Maly Theater. What's the matter?
But the fact is that “the traditions of the past cat-
a cloud looms over the minds of the living,” as you
Marx marveled. The point is that the old
stopped forms, habitual and
dead, traditions hold with tenacious paws
The consciousness of many of our comrades is captive.
Petty-bourgeois ideology of "philistine"
drama", which developed its own theatrical
104

BURN.

№1 (6)

tradition, interferesmanifestation of new content
expression, in the art of theater it interferes with expression
boots of a new theatrical form, corresponding
corresponding to new content.

And the point here is not at all in the big “ma-
mastery,” namely, in this captivity
knowledge by tradition.

It seems clear to everyone now that Moscow
The Maly Theater has outlived its “brilliant”
time, and that all attempts to preserve “Russian-
"art" are futile, because
the very foundation of this theater has rotted, ‘for
this once beautiful and sensitive
theater dedicated to public interests,
has outlived its time and no artificial
No other measures can stop his dying.
And yet, the performances of this theater attracted
attract a lot of public. This is all we should
clearly understand and decide whether the Worker should
theater to follow the path of Small or Artistic
of a new theater, should he and his
dachas of the struggle for the communist system
lie down in the calm tradition of the old te-
atra and within this tradition to formalize
their creative theatrical tasks. Answer
one: no should not; workers' theater
must follow the path of fighting everyone
manifestations of petty bourgeois and metropolitan
ztsan’ ideology, and in particular according to
ezuti struggle with “centuries of illuminated technology”
atral tradition." What is the essence
ity of this tradition? The statement defines
divided 'artistic direction,
called naturalism and realism. On-
naturalism in the theater expressed itself as a trend
portray on stage the real, genuine
new living life. The highest form of achievement
the naturalist's wife is an exact copy
roving life. But since the theater itself is essentially
society has its own specific tasks
some kind of lie, elation, artificiality
(art), then it is clear that naturalism in those
Atre found himself in a very unpleasant situation.

On the one hand, he needs to copy
life, and on the other hand, this life needs to be copied
to sleep in the theater. Realism as an art
This direction arose in the first
quarter of the twentieth century. Chernyshevsky defined

\-

took this direction as a “surrogate” for life.
Realism has several branches, but
its essence is reduced. to create such
badnatural forms that would resemble
given the actual reality, they would give
to the viewer or to the perceiver in general
mek for life. Feeling all the unfounded-
the importance of the naturalistic tendency in the theater,
realists went a little further, but remained
renewed in their search for the true
atral forms and remained on their path
photographing life, albeit a few
more skillfully than naturalists did, but;
however, still presenting himself
a huge question mark from a point of view
knowledge of the art of theater.

Let us also note here the emergence of a new technology
atral shape, I would call it machine-
staged theatre. I'm talking about cinematography
graph. Realistic theater in cinematography
fe has reached its highest point once
Vitya. And they were completely fair
Leonid Andreev’s fears that the cinema
the tograph can displace the theater, I would say,
namely, realistic theater. By placing
case for a durable kamitalistic fa-
factory-production foundation, cinema
the matographer quickly achieved significant success

khov in a dynamic, effective photo-””

shaping life. Cinematography has become
pose a real danger to existence
introduction of realism in the theater. Agile and strong
competitor, he quickly managed, thanks to bo-
lower price of its theatrical products
Varov, to attract significant
new ‘part of the theater audience and steel
thanks to the same cheapness very
close to the working audience. And I don’t serve
It’s surprising that cinema is now happening abroad
the tograph for the broad masses has supplanted almost
definitively realistic theater. So
realistic\direction in the theater before-
reached its climax in
cinema; so through the big, pol-
realistically awarded with honorable recognition
Russian theaters and cinemas were established
among the broad masses, a realistic tendency
tion and was brought up according to

I
`1

2.

No. 1 (6)

ART.

105

delicious taste. And realism as a measure
artistry entered quite firmly into
consciousness of the masses and has already become honorable
"artistic absolute truthth"-si-
speech by tradition. And as soon as he began to
diction, so I immediately acquired all of it

‘conservative properties. And this canned food

tism conveyed to the public perceiving
"exemplary" theatrical works. And
the public was accustomed to define art
the value of this or that theatrical
representation compared to the author's
thematic artistic facts. That one
the performance was good, which was similar
on an artistic authoritative model.
That performance was bad, which was not
similar to this sample. So through the author-
tetnoet established by realism theatrical
forms, an “absolute” taste was brought up
public.

Quite naturally, realism became
fur of further development of the art of technology
atra. It is completely natural that all sorts of
innovators met on the stage
authorities from the theater were disdainful
a loud hiss.

The workers' theater must put
corner of the fight against all conservatism. Spirit
this theater should be revolutionary not
only in the area of the so-called “contain-
zhaniya", but also in the area of "form".
For that art that does not seek ©o-

`appropriate form into which it puts

it is its creative content, - two
drinks price. Because, it seems to me, the Worker
theater neither with realism, much less with
naturalism is not on the way.

The only form of realistic te-
atra uses the Workers' Theater—this is a cinema
matograph. For real life depiction
he will take the most cultural means,
and instead of an image, or as you like -
Naturalists and realists rejoice, “displaying
zheniya" life on the stage of the theater, he, like

It would seem to me that I should prefer iso-

show her off on screen. But in this he is the only one
Indeed, it should not be limited. To
answer more clearly the questions asked at the beginning

from the questions, let’s continue our analysis
liz theatrical movements.

In addition to affirming the realistic
rule, even before the imperialist war-
us, but | when the basic prerequisites are already
European ‘economy at sufficient strength
penalties caused a global catastrophe, and for
her and inthe great Russian revolution,
a number of brave innovators of art appeared
theater community, which united in one
in the denial of realism, in the theater. These innovators
were the first swallows that foreshadowed
new spring of the theater. Meiningen Theater
in Germany and Moscow Art
theater caused a strong resistance to the new technology
atral thought on the part of such masters
and theater theorists like Gordon Craig, Macke
Reinhardt, Georg Fouquet, We. Meyerhold,
Evreinov and others. The position of opponents of the real
lism was determined by two main poles
marriages: on the one hand, revival
principles of conventional theater of the ancient era
and the principles of Italian comedy (saute a
CheP ag4e), on the other hand, searches are completely
new, not yet experienced, not yet seen
theatrical forms. These two main currents
tions have reached our time and
beamed their expression in the directions
Renaissance and leftist art. Per-
everything - revivalism - was based on
principles of ancient drama par excellence.
Realism in the theater poses the task of the actor
true image of reality, the best
The best actor is the one who gives us more
illusion of life. Everything conditional is expelled,
even makeup, “because an artist must
the human soul can freely manifest itself.” Not
this was the case in ancient Greek tragedy. On-
against, the actor's performance should have been off-putting
the viewer's soul from reality. And here in
This is the beauty and truth of the theater, they say “it’s possible”
born." Vyach. Ivanov at the first all-Russian
Siysk Congress on Workers' and Peasants' Te-
Atru suggested in his report the organization
tion of choral mass actions with a luminary
led by the model of the ancient theater, and
in No. 62 of “Vestnik Theater” (April, May
1920) the same Vyach. Ivanov writes “in

106

TORE

No. 1 (6)

depending on the two main elements of its
its composition—the chorus, on the one hand, the hero,
on the other hand, theater, understood in a broad sense,
as an artistic performance in general, is
repeatedly in its centuries-old history
repeating change of two types:; theater
artistically designed crowd and theater
personality. Exceptionalpassion
form and by the purity of revealing the deepest
essence of theater, I must admit a short
the era of spring blossoming, ‘tragedy during
Aeschylus and Sophocles and comedy under Aristo-
fane: here, and only here, we will meet
We expect a perfect balance between good
the beginning and the beginning of the initiators and action
heroic (“heroic”) personality in the dragon-
me... The heroes of our bourgeois dramas are crushed
they were due to their bourgeoisity, i.e.
separation from the masses." Here's the weight
interesting and has a deep meaning,
expressed: 1) in the denial of the bourgeoisie
no realistic direction, 2) in the sword-
tania about the revival of ancient drama (its
spring blossom" as it was "at
Aeschylus and Sophocles"), 3) in the pursuit of aesthetics
instill in the zealous intelligentsia their melancholy
about “rebirth” to the masses. This is a fundamental
point of view also poured its practical
implementation attempts. So in Moscow it was
is called the so-called tonal-plasticity
association, which is trying to re-
create a theater on the principles of ancient decorum
mation, on principles well known to us
nykh both according to Cicero and Quintilian. These
the same principles also influenced
the art of the Chamber Theater, from where
Ferdinandov came out with his
rhythmic experiments. (See Oedipus Rex and

"Thunderstorm" in TROgozheko-Simonovsky district '

theater). True, these principles came here
not directly, but through false classification
ical French theater, which is influenced
the ancient theater was established with inconsistency
opinion.

This is the shortest description
"Renaissance" Detached from action
differences and resulting from

fascination in modern theater, this.

the direction finds nothing better,
how to dream of a revival of ancient drama.
Without denying many virtues and greatness
ancient tragedy and comedy, we, however,
We deeply doubt the possibility of its
birth in modern conditions and
therefore we believe that the Workers' Theater should
blows to deeply study and assimilate the ancient
drama, but to follow the path of its revival is not
should.

So the Workers' Theater has one left
the path arising from the revolutionary re-
evaluation of theatrical forms is the best way
responsible, but also the most faithful. B
in fact, having taken the path of active opiate
positions of bourgeois ideology, declaring the
tour front—in the struggle for communist
skaya ideology—the Workers' Theater thereby
obliges itself not only to develop s0-
corresponding theatrical plots, but; and you-
express these stories in the appropriate form
meh. And this form has never existed before.
And all attempts to use the old form
will be in vain, ‘for it is all adapted,
and appeared as a result of alien proletarians
atu of social trends. Before the Worker
theater the immediate task is to find
this new form, corresponding to the guarantee
monstrously merged with new content. Is-
This form can only be rolled along the
research in the fight against theatrical tradition.

Every performance of the Workers' Theater in this
I mean, I should. make victories. His for-
dacha is truly creativity, i.e. increased
the presence in theatrical material is inconceivable
means of social problems.

And if the Workers' Theater needs re-
alistical reproduction of any co-
beings, he should have done it in cinema-
count, but not on the stage of his theater,
it must give brighter, fuller,
more exciting images and events than
in real life. And here he sometimes
and while on the path with leftist directions,
for they too boldly put forward the slogan of struggle

and critics of bourgeois art. Because only-_

but they are trying to create completely new
high, unusual, unprecedented forms. But,

NuRIRCHETU

“.
yy ZM d UENSHERIERT U UANEECHN ions network:

>

K
on
|
rya

g

8

No. 1 (6) :

ART.

107

following. leftist art, Workers' Theater
must in no way forget about
skill. Unfortunately, too often
leftist art followed the path of amateurism
and here, as always, in new attempts
registration, there was a charlatan under-
getting along to the deepest and most correct
tasks of leftist art.

Guarantee of correctly planned
board in Ranyway ‘teitre should
be knowledgeable about modern theater

©, Ra
—* culture. The workers' theater must re-evaluate

7=

destroy old values and accept new ones
not just “you live healthy”, but on the basis
knowledge of craftsmanship and mastery of technology
processing of theal material. Driving
same, “managing” his search for new forms

°and mastery of technology will serve him

class consciousness. So: 1) in mastery
skills, 2) in wrestling in traditional
national theatrical form and 3) in different
collapse in the consciousness of the working theater-
new audience of the fetish of the old form—
is the immediate task of the Workers' Theatre.

And in vain that comrade from Transport
workers, whose words I quoted in
chale of this steel, says that the workers of us
don't understand. That it is sometimes difficult for them to dis-

take it from the right place, but from what is small

a literate person has difficulty reading a newspaper, not at all

t

It follows that we should not print newspapers. From
it follows that the illiterate must
steel is well literate. And we know that
The workers' theater must take upon itself
and the task of eliminating artistic
illiteracy. In this regard we
We will try to accept all relevant
measures. But the path of the Workers' Theater remains
direct and clear. And especially dear to us,
support of our comrades, in the line of work
what class is fully armed against the bourgeois
different world. And there is such support
is obvious, this is evidenced by how many
Numerical reviews from working spectators M.R.
T.P. regarding the first theatrical experiments
new designs, about snacks
M.R.T.P., and the reviews of our party
and the Soviet press (see, for example, Khar-
Kovsky “Communist” organ of the Central Committee of the R.C.P.
Ukraine dated October 30, 1921 or Mo-
Skovsky “Trud” October 1920)

All this convinces us that the line
taken by the Workers' Theater is correct. But we
we know that on the way of its development and growth,
there are significant difficulties. We're not at all
we don’t close our eyes and don’t refuse them
from them, but we are sure that the Workers' Theater
will emerge victorious from these difficulties.

Shaft. Smyshlyaev.

Reflect, imitate or build.In a good Marxist society,
It is accepted as a rule of good manners to consider those
atr a reflection of life. And since the passage
Tara theater is theater Marxistek we-
slanting class and since Marxism is united
truly reveals the true content
life, then the proletarian theater is truth-
a true, true, accurate reflection of reality
ity, that is, the proletarian theater is a theater

realistic.

They argue in other ways, but
does it matter to the dead man, ‘they killed him
with an ax or hoe.

So, realism. But realism in the theater means
expects everyday life. Why does he? What is his social
nal meaning. That, as our comrades teach us,
riches in ideology - to introduce
letharial with concrete reality, -
in the cognitive role of art. But not-
Has no one yet realized that in our
time any organized cognition
makes sense only when it is accurate,
objectively and strictly scientifically. Otherwise
in the same case, an appeal to the cognitive
the meaning of theater is not only hopeless, but
downright fearful and provocative: it’s impossible
108

GO

№1 (6)

deceive the viewer by giving out artificial
for the present. For theater is not organically
capable of visual objectivity
by the very nature of its conditional creativity
stva. And if a worker wants to study everyday life,
then a true Marxist will send him to ethno-
graphic museum, will send to the archives of the
moire; will recommend using photography
phy and cinema, -cognitive tools-
art of high technology and unconditional precision
ness. Yes, finally, let us find that one
an eccentric who visits theaters to study
everyday life; truly it would be worth placing
go to the ethnographic museum (for
study).

They try to wriggle out through other means.
stvami. They say: what about creativity?
quality of images, types, generalizations?

The answer to this is extremely
simple

Realism has never had a patent anywhere
for such creativity. On the contrary, the latter
shackled in the realistic theater
clamor for the “truth of life” that kills
fantasy and transforming the active and free-
bog builder inimpotent.

Until the play died,
while the theater is literary, while it is necessary to use
call him what he is for the class
owl struggle - until this moment it is possible and
should talk about his visual
possibilities. But talk about them from a point
from the point of view of proletarian interests, this means
raise the question of trends.

The working class has nothing to fear from its values.
lei, shyly hiding behind a fig leaf,

com "similarity". Trend, bright, revealing

proud and courageous, sooner or later
is gesturing (already beginning to triumph
“Mexican”) in Proletkults.” Since
all means must be put into action
action, pressing on all the springs of the theatrical
mechanism, if this mechanism is,
indeed, a generator of propaganda
energy. Do not show, not pictures from
life or panoramas to entertain the viewer,
not to amuse him with spectacles, but to prove
convince, promote, -actively, on-

deliberately, deliberately. And everything that allows
stage technique, all its expressive
and constructive capabilities - all this
must be put into action, uninhibited
no external framework (merchant:
“to make it look like”), defined only
the task of revolutionary influence. By-
to do otherwise means to rob ourselves
yourself, blindly follow the sacredly established
template, obeying the established tradition
tion, “everyone” recognized form. But ra-

the working class is called upon to destroy idols, nis-®

test authoritarianism and be considered only
with the practical tasks of its historical
sky mission. And if for these tasks it is necessary
stigmatize the bourgeoisie, ridicule its way of life, its
activity, its intentions, or, conversely,
if it is necessary to glorify the labor movement,
then let all the power of theatrical materials
will unfold in the acute dynamics of action
natural forms.

But this, of course, is not a solution. No agi-
nationality will not be able to recreate theatrical
forms so that it is possible to
talk about a new theater.

Here we must tear off the mask once and for all.
from theatrical conciliators: we, they say, too
revolutionaries.

It's time to saydirectly and definitely: is-^

use of the stage area for
illustrations of proletarian ideas are also
similar to the creation of a proletarian theater, like
prostitute to lover. It's time to be honest
admit that the revolution of ideas is not yet
revolution of the theater, and what else is needed
the last one for the Hermitage arena
became a real arena of Proletkult.
Here we are not talking about form and content,
of course. The point here is that theater
there is creativity of a special kind, nothing about
having no “ideas” whatsoever.
And if the theater, nevertheless, deals with the “idea”
yami", then only because they can
(but do not necessarily have to) be included in it,

as a material. That's why the shameless

No.

to believe that proletarian ideology or h-=

proletarian will (0, metaphysics!) determines
represent the trends of the new theater.
^^ ao

her: _“

*

№1 (6)

ART.

109

Art is creativity directly
but influencing. forms And every form
determined by four factors:

1) material,

2) conditions of perception,

3) organizational task,

_ 4) the production process (design).

But all these four factors are entirely
completely directly functioning
they exist as social phenomena. And from here -
inevitable conclusion: every form, regardless
‹strongly, as such, there is a social and,
^ therefore, in our conditions, class-
voy phenomenon. Define form by ideology,
throwing away material existence, that's all
is the same as sewing a suit based on one
naked desire to get dressed.

I move on to the theater.

Theater is an organization of dynamic
actions; This is, in essence, every theater
whether he realizes it or not (sorry
In Stanislavsky).

What does it mean: to build a proletarian
theater This means creating such a theater, forms
whose actions would always correspond
tasks of the proletariat, no matter how they change,
no matter how varied these tasks may be.
’ This means building a socially expedient
“The new theater, evolving, consciously

(I emphasize) evolving leg in

keep up with life. This meansdo not come from

ready-made forms, & from conscious tasks. This
means for each task to build a new one,
independent form.

Not only this: the proletarian theater must
end the separation from life, the isolation
great aesthetics, no matter how revolutionary
It didn’t hide behind the scenes. Proletarian te-
atr cannot help but become an instrument of re-creation
everyday life: this is the iron logic of the worker
movements. And, therefore, forms of action
this theater will inevitably come from
material constructibility requirements,

_ because what is not constructive is not vital. But
can be designed only by knowing the mother-
ala and departing from them.

Therefore, the formula of the proletarian theater
states the following: it is constructive

new design of the real dynamics of ma-
materials according to each time again
assigned task.

The consequences of this formula are obvious and
inexorable:

Since realistically-depicting-
ny theater (Maly, Art, etc.)
repeats the existing, since the form
its actions are determined by similarity with already
created (read: with “life”), insofar as
this theater will eventually be thrown away
Shen the working class in the trash
history.

P. Since the stylized theater (Ka-
dimensional, for example) comes from ready-made aesthetic
ical canons, to that extent he will reject
chickpeas, even if it gets bolder to the point of plotlessness.

Sh. Since any modern theater,
at least Meyerhold's (I would like, yes
impossible), remains theatrical,
i.e. — comes from the form of action, — but-
so much he cannot give methods of pro-
Tara creativity.

GU. The destruction of theatrical forms,
whatever they are, analytical analysis
the placement of figurativeness on its elements,
subversion of fixed techniques
(role, etc.) is the only way to
liberation from bourgeois dictatorship.

U. Destruction of literary chains,
producing theatrical materials and production
diminishing their effective force, inevitably
but for constructive theater, and therefore:
Down with the repertoire.

UT. Autonomy of materials; amnesty
soup and people, liberation of dynamics, -all this requires the death of the plot, the jailer
theatrical freedom.

UP. And only from this moment can we
started construction. Without slavery, stage-
Russian stamps, without the framework of the recognized “thea-
tralny", on a solid foundation of scientific
experiment, on theater materials: movement
chewing - by person, by volume, by color,
light, etc.

USH. Only from this moment will the form be
determined by knowledge of the material and tasks
construction. Only then will the proletariat
110

islands:

№1 (6)

can build on the stage stage
new effective worlds, actively collaborating
those interested in social practice.

[X. The new theater will not fit the mother-
al, exposed by analysis, as an aesthetic
logical phenomenon (“Beauty”), new theater
will perceive the material in all its reality
vital, practical role, and person
for him will not be an actor, & qualified
bathroom person, the board is not decoration, &
processed wood, light. not stage
effect, but lighting, etc.

Music

There is an old theory.

She says that music was born from labor
commercial processes. During their execution.
As an auxiliary and auxiliary
resource.

This theory is naive and incorrect, like all
bourgeois theories about the origin of
art. All of it is arbitrary and completely
unscientifically built on just one fact.
Based on the fact that music is in its simplest forms,
especially in their vocal forms, from ancient times
most times and until these days, in use
cursed and used by workers as
a means of supporting work rhythm.

Classic club and so on.

The fact itself is true, but the origin
What does this have to do with it?

From use to origin di-
huge station. In order to
music could be used at work
processes, she obviously should have already
Celebrate. The non-existent is not used
I mean. Dubinushka and other facts are testified
indicate that people sang and sing
during work, but they do not say anything
they call us about how people invented such
a tricky thing, like singing.

If you really need to connect, use
neitherIf you have an origin, then you can do it without difficulty.
build a whole series of mutually contradictory
vykh Tebriya origin of music. 'No yes-

Kh. Well, what about the plot-based theater?
figurative. Is it possible to do without
him. You can't, of course. And the question about him
should be posed 060b0,—9the question
about the revolution of theatrical plot; about him—-
elsewhere. However, even here it is necessary to remember
remember the main thing: until the theater is created
dynamic designs, elaboration of forms
inevitably on the stage, even if they
they compact it with proletarian heels.

B.A.

and labor.

easy to walk - close to © labor theory
exists and competes with it the same
unscientific and naive theory of origin
music from religious cults. Facts sa-
of many ancient and primitive uses
"religious" theory can lead to both
as much as you like. Rituals of the East, all sorts of sins -
cultural actions, practices of the first Christians
sk communities, rituals of shamans, sorcerers and _
spellcasters of all wild peoples - not _
count everything. s

If military people were more interested in
were interested in art and would be in this field
are at least somewhat ambitious, then they too
could with the same right and with the same
successfully present your “military” theory
origin of music. It would be enough
refer to the regimental drum, to the military
shells of the savages of Polynesia, on the banner
that warlike singing of the Germans in close com-
thy shields. Perhaps, in quantity and visualization
convincing examples of the most ancient
it and the most primitive use
military people, what good, would beat and
“labor” and “religious” their competition
rents.

Finally, this dispute about the origin could
would be transferred from the field of professions to... and
arena of social classes. Of course, ex-
deployed from all times and all peoples
would take the “labor” theory under protection,

at

m

7 sing along,

_ friendship

№1 (6)

ART.

111

as your class one. But the exploiters, not
doubtless they would object. They called
would go to court as witnesses to the shadows of all
minnesingers, bards, skalds, minestre-
lei, from ancient times to the divine
ny Mozart, to the soloists of “his emperor-

-someone” inclusive, and would force them under,

take an oath to show that music is not for men
fiction. That she was born as a noble
new art of oppressors and enslavers,
and the peasant in his field began to sing in such a way
analogies and imitation of masters.

You can multiply endlessly, thus
theories of origin based on fact-
tah usage. And in all these theories
the facts presented are equally
will be correct and irrefutable.
they will say anything except
one. Except for the origin, of course.

The methodological error here is clear.

There is historical accuracy here; or
the probability is at least replaced by pl
logical possibility.

Logically there is no reason to refuse music
in pleasure to arise from any womb.
“Logic willingly allows the birth of music
both in labor processes and in religious
ecstasy, and in the heat of military clashes,

-and in a disposition to all kinds of badness-

feminine culture and court environment.
But logic with history is never special
were not members. Stories have no logic
what is needed is dialectics. Dialectics in all
considered theories, including
“labor”, not worth a penny. Dialectics,
requires historical necessity. Tre-
there is evidence that in such and such a period,
under such and such conditions must inevitably
such things were to arise, but not at all
other events. But this necessity,
of this iron inevitability in none of
There are no discussions about music. It is possible to prove-
convey as convincingly as you like that a person
it was good and useful for the worker to work
but there is no way to prove that
due to objective historical conditions
in such and such an era he must

Y lo-

was to sing during the labor process, and
I couldn’t, I didn’t dare not sing.

There is no such evidence about music at all.
ke, he can’t talk about any other art
be in the current state of our history
ric knowledge. And therefore it cannot be
and scientifically constructed theories about the origin
waiting for the arts. They needhave the courage to
know:

We don’t know when, where and how we were born.
there was music.

But the facts remain facts. And in my own way,
they are, as always, eloquent for those who
knows how to listen to them. Without proving anything about the
origin, they proved for, then with complete non-
falsifiability that existed, and the existence
there is labor music, religious music, military music
naya, courtier, etc.

In other words, music served and serves
utilitarian purposes. And not just one
anything, but in the most diverse and, `sub-
hour, the most opposite industries. B
In this sense, music is universal.

Let's reveal the content of this utility
and versatility.

Let's use the comparison method.

Why is music needed in warfare?

She raises the fighting spirit of the squad,
encourages warriors to action, helps
keep the rhythm of the step and all the hymns in general -
istic professional movements.

What is the role of music in religious rituals?
duh?

She lifts the religious mood
believers, provides an accurate sequence
activity of actions. Where the ritual is bound
with body movements, she gives the latter
rhythmic design.

What justifies the use of music in work?
dovykh. processes?

It excites the energy of the worker, co-
acts by concentrating him in work, sub-
maintains the rhythm of the movements used.

What about the role of chamber music?

Chamber music arose as part of these "
chum salmon and the conditions of existence of feudal
court society. Her role was to
112

MOUNTAINS:

No. 1 (6)

establishing a certain “tone”, i.e.
again to mental excitement and
to maintain that peculiar rhythm,
which underlies all etiquette.

Wherever music was used, on
she was assigned the following tasks:

initiation of the corresponding
nia;

incentives to action;

determining and regulating rhythm.

In other words, music is always
was used as a means of organizing
action.

And this role of music remained unchanged
at all times, among all peoples and with all
historical situations. Direction and
the degree of development of music also did not change
her npractical functions. Music of shells
and primitive drums, singing into shields,
Indian wine and the brass ringing of cornets,
trumpets and trombones, gothic organ and Wagne-
Rovsky orchestra, all types, types and qualities,
music have always been fully capable
the ability to excite the mood, encourage
wait for action and regulate the rhythm. .

Consequently, this property of music is
lack of social order. Therefore,
from internal structure and internal
the organization of music and its practical
properties are independent. The ability to organize
it is not inherent to change processes and actions
music, as a certain type of art -
for art is a phenomenon of social
row and content, and the meaning of its historical
chesically variable.

The ability to produce psycho-physiological
gical action of excitement and motivation
niya is the basic property of all sound
complexes regarding the human is-
Hickey. Elemental sonorous sounds -
the whistle of the wind, the noise of the forest, the roar of the city, etc.
produce on a person, the same mentally
“organizing action, like music-art”
development in any form and at any stage of development
Vitya. It is this psychically organizing
action is meant when they say that
the sound of the forest evokes peace and tranquility,
and the city noise arouses anxiety and

mood-

the bustling mobility of the townspeople. on it
built legends 0 magical music
shifting rock, taming beasts in
forcing people to do whatever they want
the owner of the source of this supernatural
no strength.

` Music was used practically as
organizing tool, in a wide variety of
various branches of human activity, and
developed in each special specific
Chinese forms. The greatest complexity and
and its highest blossoming, music reached its
swing of religious and social-public,
developed from the feudal court.

To support and organize labor
rhythm has been used exclusively
vocal music only. This industry is not
attracted the attention of professionals
art and didn’t use paintOtel-
by the social strata that held in
in their own hands means of promoting cultural
human activity. Labor music
ka, in which the ruling classes are not
were interested, there was also
developed exclusively as an industry “na-
native" music, but even here its progress is due
cold at a relatively very low level
penalties. The club remains a classic
sky example. Not only literature, but
even a serious oral tradition of labor-
Vaya music does not know.

Meanwhile, with the development of technology and the growth
productive forces of labor. processes
became more and more difficult psychologically
more responsible. In handicraft work remains
there was a lot of attention free from work
nia. Due to this surplus it was carried out
labor singing. The tension of attention in co-
temporary industrial work is
that there is no free surplus of it
remains. The rhythm of industrial work
complexity and in relation to the practiced
growth goes far beyond the limits of vocal
human musical capabilities. From-
the acoustic exchange has also changed significantly
installation of labor. Pre-industrial labor
proceeded in conditions of relative silence,
even silence. In the natural

|

Pro.

_^

">>
H a,

>

№1 (6)

ART.

113

setting or in the setting of small crafts
line workshops. Industrial labor
associated with powerful sonorous. acoustics
extensive factories and factories.

In our modern factory
Old Testament clubs cannot
have no successors or heirs.
The industrial proletarian does not sing for the work
that - firstly, there is no time, and, secondly, from
there is enough noise from machines and machines. By
for the same reasons, completely ridiculous
is the idea of transferring to a factory-based
Votic instrumental music workshops
ki. Musical instruments are all hand-made

`new guns. The tempos and rhythms available to them

will be comically clumsy and slow
next to the rhythm and tempo of movements, where
five hundred revolutions per minute - low speed
grow. And generally speaking, transplantation
dozhestvennye means and ressupcs from those
conditions and the situation that complies with them
buildings, in others - alien and opposite
- can never give any positive results
living results. Symphonic orchestra
the kester is just as ridiculous and worthless in the factory
workshop while working, how ridiculous it was
would be a church organ at the head of a detachment of light
cavalry.

None of the types of music known to us
certainly cannot play the role of “labor-
howl” neither in modern conditions nor in the future
the future, because the future is possible
foresee.

Since the sound complexes themselves
can already serve as a means to organize
tion of activity, and since industrialization
labor is connected and probably forever
will remain bound © by a powerful element
factory acoustics, then by itself
the idea of using this
acoustics for the purpose of organizational impact
effects on workers. I

Logically, it is possible, of course, to organize
val all the noise of machines and guns, all the sound
vital life of the enterprise so that they provide
focus on the psychology of workers, excite-
motivating and stimulating influence. Maybe
with a certain stretch, it is possible to organize these
Call bathroom noises industrial
music of the future.

But again this is only logic, & not
dialectics.

Logically possible.

What about dialectics?

Dialectics has not yet spoken
words. | |

Boris Kushner.

New factory.

Engineers despise fiction. B
in this respect they are similar to monasticism
living in the most strict monasteries, where
even the “works of the holy fathers” refer to
"easy reading" Engineers are enthusiastic
ascetics and technology fanatics. No need to pu-

. The thief of a genuine engineer with a “specialist”

behind whom is a beggarly “prodmepyuk”.
The engineer is a revolutionary par excellence.
And if there are no harsh formulas and undeviating

”of measures, is already “fiction.” Well,

after that for the engineer - “iroletarskaya

1oesia”, praising in measured words

plants, factories, electric lights; rail-
Bugle No. 1 (6).

owl routes and ocean ships. Less than
"fiction" despised by the engineer,
"Wagon" literature, humor, etc.ehni-
logical satiricon.

Through the technical pathos of the proletarian
poets often show technical ignorance
quality And there's not enough of a disdainful smile
or cheerful laughter (technology has its own
humor). The matter is more serious because poetic
ical delights are contagious and if according to
the essence of the views of this or that poet
false, then its formally revolutionary
songs can actually become a tool of social
nal-political reaction. Let's not help

8
114

WWII,

№1 (6)

rit: the technical revolution is due to
social or vice versa. It is undeniable that
social revolution is impossible and unthinkable
Lima without a technical revolution. And so,
it turns out that the majority of Russians
proletarian poets not only do not have
no idea about that technical
revolution, which is carried out by man-
society, but are entirely in the power of the pa-
phos in front of outdated, rejected technology.
Poetry is the soul. Proletarian poetry—soul
working class. And, therefore, the proletarian
poets brought up technically ignorant
natural, attract the soul of the proletariat, in depth
binu of socio-political reaction. Case
9710 ‘not funny, huh. terrible. And not “satire”
con”, but a tragedy.
Not unfounded. Proletarian poetry (Russian)
Sky) in recent years has been reactionary. In the very
in fact. Factory chimney and stone soot
coal smoke - attributes of the proletarian
poet. But modern technology is smokeless
combustion. And the smoky torch is factory labor
ba - a sad relic of technology
past. Pipeless plant - modern
ness. Rumble and ringing of anvils. But ‘modern
The mining equipment is silent. Nothing like this
excites and does not disturb technology, like ma-
tire noises. “The car is knocking” is hers
illness. Near the steam turbine you can whisper
thief words in love. "Forge" and "Po-
the philosophy of the working blow,” but modern technology
Nika, if she hasn’t completely given up blows,
violating the structure of the material, then
in any case prefers it to thunder
hammer silent press. Powerful, coverage
pressing plastic pressure - instead of
blow. There are no words - blacksmiths have a fun job
"while the iron is hot." However, wherewhether-
more time and more trembling delight when
the most stubborn metal in the hands of a sculptor -
The body of the technique is like honey wax. And the bugle
sparks, flames - in their own way. However
technology is generally against “naked fire”, pro-
tive fireworks of all kinds, because
all this is a waste, a victim of cruel entropy,
`with which the technician is considered only as ©
‘a condition that is still necessary and insurmountable

wash. Instead of flares that excite
delights of proletarian poets, modern
equipment switched to working at high temperatures
ratios in confined spaces. Neither
who among the proletarian poets has not sung
no electric forge, no miracles of aluminum
thermia. Not dedicated to termite—at least I
I haven’t read at least a single poem
nia during the years of the revolution. Probably Mayakov-
sky thinks that the termite is an African mura-
wey. But how much empty-voiced delight
before the hammer and the anvil. Sparks splash
burns, precious steel burns and the poet in
delighted. Meanwhile, the fireworks of Eperlijat
much more effective—if only that’s what you want
aunt. Probably many proletarians
these know those spectacular complex wires
new candles that are scattered so
dazzling sparks - this is Perm,
applied to Christmas fun... But in ra-
Bot, in business everything is covered and concentrated
of course—no ostentatious shine, everything is inside.
Reactionary primitive technology is all ana-
tomic—slurping, opened, naked-
ny mechanism. Revolutionary technology -
organic; nothing sticks out in vain and
does not wobble or knock. Flame, fire, -
the delights of proletarian poets. And the technology
solved the cold problem?
Sveta. Mass is an object of admiration for the pro-
Tara poet. The material is the basis. And for
revolutionary technology, inertia is only one thing
from properties—tools, and material—just not
absolutely necessary support, only a guide-
influencing system for creative action.
The technological revolution entails
profound change in the very structure of the fa-
factory labor. And then there’s the tragedy. U
“scientific organization of labor” is on everyone’s lips
“Tylorization”, etc. But how-that's how it goes.
it seemed that even the Central Institute
Labor is the most seemingly dear child
proletarian revolution - ended up in lalas
the blackest, darkest technical re-

shares. They still talk about working in

while the technological revolution was victorious
the master confidently confirmed. It's only worth it
get to know new factories better,

Yu

|
yes

|. `

3.

No.

No. 1 (6)

115

arising after the World War in order to
understand what treacherous trick
those who all-
completely captivated by the literature of the technical era
last century. If only Karl Marco
resurrected, visited at least the new one
that the open factory of A.S.E.A] in Sweden
tions where Jungström turbines are being built—on
I would probably introduce serious principles
amendments to his constructions, because he
would see a factory that liberates
the proletariat from work. Also oevobo-
The proletariat expects from work the burning of ca-
abundant coal in the depths of the mines. Coal Miners
no more. Also liberates the proletariat
transfer of energy from work to distance
in weightless form. Freedom from the work of hundreds
thousands of transport workers. Before hearing
every Russian worker—alas!—has not yet
achieved a lightning coup that
accomplished by revolutionary technology,

‘Because there is no noise or soot here,

oh

no flames, no smoke. Technical revolution
tion took place in creative silence and in
cold brilliance of reason. Everything classic
the content of the consciousness of the proletariat is determined
formed by the totality of “production
conditions" of the irretrievably past past,

‚in the light of the technical revolution appeared

is deeply reactionary because
"historical necessity" liberates
working masses from factory labor
to work on a new agricultural farm
briquet,

To the horror of people standing at the height of co-
temporary technical worldview, re-
promotional, pseudo-proletarian views
dominate in relation to agricultural technology
skogo economy. Delights don't work here
further and higher than “electrification”, as
stubbornly said instead of “electrification”and sworn patriots write “agricultural

`farm factory'. In mechanization or

$
U

at best, mechanization and in general
research of soil cultivation and other agricultural
technical techniques see the main skeletons of “bread-
no factory." During these years, many times
persistently under the official proletarian

ART.

flag different “professors” calling
they planted themselves as engineers in the heart of the Russians
listeners nonsense judgments that the earth
business is “no different” from other me-
mechanical processes. And this is at the time
when biotechnology and biochemistry were given into the hands
modern engineer new, promising
monstrous successes of weapons in use
to areas very far from agriculture.
Another new sound is “about the role of bacteria in the
making cultivated plants" topic
“on the role of bacteria in metallurgy” will cause
just a bewildered batting of the eyes
supporters of the “bread factory”. Clumsy,
rumbling, crushing the soil, puffing”
kerosene soot, the tractor is used
great delight from all supporters
"bread factory" Beyond this in essence
the situation is also reactionary from the point of view of technology
We did not go to the nic revolution of delight.
And hardly one in a hundred supporters of the American
knows the canalization of tillage (and how to
Ben is filled with admiration) about America
Kansk agricultural factories
insects." Millions of light-winged "ammo-
fil" in clouds released from the factory of insects
whom to combat malicious worms

`Isn't this a more worthy subject to restore?

bargaining than - alas! - far from perfect
riveted from fundamentally already rejected-
In addition, the revolutionary technology of iron trav-
torus Or “a factory for breeding gods”
cows." We haven’t heard of it, and it’s wild. And between
However, this is a matter from the point of view of a bread factory.
ki much more serious than “electro-
fiction."

Proletarian poetry both thunders and
rants about the factory. And the new factory is quiet
and bright. In proletarian poetry, hot
the crimson flame, & the new factory, shines
cool, rich in violet and ultra-
violet rays of light. In the proletarian
poetry iron. Alas! Revolutionary oneshni-
ka took a long time ago on suspicion of iron, like
material. Symbol of indestructible strength
iron turns out to have to wilt before
new materials achieved by technology.
The Iron Age has sunk into an irrevocable past.

8*
116

PORN.

loe. We have entered a brief period of bronzes,
behind which is already undoubtedly drawn
It is not the metal age that is emerging. Chemistry of cry-
steels gave us at the beginning of the twentieth century
diamonds and other so-called precious stones,
sparkling grinding wheels made of precious stones
` stones, from under which whole comets
tails of fiery splashes, changed pourers
ki locksmiths. But the chemistry of crystals is receding
in the entire cultural world in front of technology
chemistry of colloids, - non-crystalline substances
society What does this promise us, hug now
absolutely impossible. By the way
It is worth mentioning that in connection with the success

colloidal chemo-technique predoig
great collapse of the textile industry
ness. Cross weave fabrics
the threads have come to an end. End of spinners and
weavers, the end of waterfall-noisy manufactories
ram. We are entering the age of artificial leather.

A technological revolution is taking place. And
if it occurs outside of the proletariat,
then naturally the singers of the proletariat sing about
past. "Firewing Plant" - "iron
flowers" reactions. The new factory is still waiting

their inspired poets. Masters of the new

poetry will come from the circle of revolutionary masters
tion technology 1). }
Sergey Grigoriev.

Reply to S. Grigoriev.

S. Grigoriev's article is, of course, useful;
Of course it's interesting. Of course! For four
too year of October echoes of “technical
skoy revolution" were very, faintly audible
under the footsteps of social revolution and
hot fight. These echoes are sometimes not at all
came towards us through the blockade ring, and
Grigoriev’s steel is interesting—today
this day—by the fact that some fragmentary
hints 0b of this “technological revolution”
she gives. But - alas! - This is limited
her interest. Another one will come, more dexterous,
chronicler, will receive more foreign
strange books, arm yourself with even more
with long scissors... 'and the steel will lose
any valueHowever, this whole “technological revolution”
clearly pulled by the hair. Not with Grigoriev
only an informant, but also a writer. Denied
proletarian literature he does not dare—
Yes, it’s unlikely that anyone could do this in 1922
dare, - therefore it is necessary to replace
the essence of proletarian literature is something
its opposite and pass off the latter as
present.

He needs to prove that the “proletarian
poetry (Russian) of recent years reactionary
on" that "proletarian poets attract the soul

proletariat into the depths of socio-political
chemical reaction" (?!) The usual technique for us is
more cunning representatives - for certain
bourgeoisie. Our entire party survived, pe-
period of such accusations. Social movement
the end of the proletarian revolution was announced
return to the era of barbarism, dictatorship
of the proletariat - the commissar state, more
vaki reactionaries, etc.

“Niklo is one of the proletarian poets,” writes

S. Grigoriev, did not sing any electric
forge, nor the wonders of aluminothermy. Termite
not dedicated—at least I haven’t read it—
not a single poem."

What a horror!

S. Grigoriev writes: “this is not a matter
funny, but terrible” “Kureiv S. Gri-

. Gor'eva).

“Factory chimney and coal soot
a lot of smoke—the attributes of a proletarian poet.
But modern technology—smokeless combustion—

1) The editors do not share a number of provisions of the article
S. Grigoriev and ‘prints it as a discussion paper,

considering the very formulation of the question interesting, _

thought-provoking and thereby useful, Editor-
tion will give space to both objections to this article,
as well as articles covering the issue of attitude
new technology and proletarian poetry.

VK,

®
r

 proletarian struggle,

="

yy

No. 1 (6)

ART.

117

tion. And a smoky torch—a factory chimney—
a sad relic of the technical past
go, Pipeless plant—modernity. Gro-
although the ringing is annoying. But modern
the technique is silent... Mass is a subject of admiration
the words of a proletarian poet. Material -
basis. And for a revolutionary technician, inert
tion is only one of the properties—tools, and ma-
material is just not an unconditional support”...

In these discussionsreflected how
the sound of the sea in a small shell, all small
bourgeois ideology of the intelligentsia, which
which “victoriously” asserts itself “as
masters" (italics by S. Grigoriev). Finely
bourgeois ideology is thoroughly imbued
fetishism, mechanicalness, thinginess.
She lost the concept of the connection between phenomena and
processes, her world is fragmented, chaotic, non-
organized. She doesn't deal with the world in
its whole, but with a separate thing, dead
and catching in itself.

Doesn't this explain that literary
great exponents of this petty-bourgeois ideology—
futurists are in the most cruel captivity of things,
that all their works are entirely mechanical?

Isn’t that why S. Grigoriev wants to
knit to proletarian literature what it needs
organically alien? True, in the work

of proletarian writers plant, factory

brik, modern labor processes. for-
water and a number of phenomena associated with
water situation, occupy a certain
a good place, but by no means the only one
that is by no means an end in itself. Bourgeois
literature that has degenerated into room-in
intimate lyrics, very lovingly cultivated
raves and sings of the comforts of the room:
carpets, candles, fireplaces, portraits, sofas and
etc., etc. Some replaced the spark plugs—
electric light bulbs, elegant co-
the laps are cars, the hearth is a cafeteria,
fires—maybe electric kitchen—
mi - this matter does not fundamentally change.
Bourgeois literature glorifies comfort,
bourgeois -contemplative
tsaniye, proletarian - action, bourgeois-
naya—pleasure, proletarian—will, and
etc., etc. d. in

There is not a single area of public and personal
new life, in which tasks and goals are
letarian, and the bourgeoisie would not be opposed to
positive, hostile; therefore proletarian
and bourgeois literature are deadly enemies
gi, between which it cannot. be accepted
rhenia; that's why they're pathetic| and the criteria are funny
bourgeois writer in his approach to pro-
letarian literature.

Among some of the readers very much.
the view is firmly established that the proletarian
Chinese literature “glorify” the plant, pipes,
vagwounds, smoke, soot, etc. S. Grigoriev
in his article he only repeats these customs
military talk, but nothing funnier and
It couldn't get any more stupid than that.

The plant and everything connected with it is not self-
the goal of “celebrating” proletarian literature.
The “factory” of proletarian literature is not fossilized
a dull fetish for which you incense poetry
creative, etc. incense, not an object of admiration
worship and worship, but only the most related
new and close symbol of the proletariat, which
those at the factory suffered, fought, organized
tried and finally learned (and is learning) how to
know yourself, your feelings, thoughts, tasks
and goals. The plant was one of the most powerful
the most important freights and factors of socio-economic
mic and production relations, which
who helped the proletariat from the formless
the masses of slaves become, become a victorious number
lecture of the builders of the Future, the last
class, the forerunner and founder of the com-
munism.

Therefore, not “terrible”, but funny S. Pri-
Gorev, who approaches from Vavrdu in 0ezia
with his own standard and wants to impose it on us.
Obviously, religious-mystical and commercial
national-erotic motifs, which are re-
is currently filled with bourgeois babble
literature, he is reactionary and “terrible”
it doesn’t seem, but that’s what the proletarian youths
naturally they write about the plant, he finds
reactionary... `

In proletarian literature one can hardly find
the silence of a work dedicated to the plant,
only as such, without connection with the whole
the life of a proletarian. Attitude to the factory
118

BURN,

№1 (6)

closely connected: with the experiences of the proletariat
`and the look at him was set accordingly
exactly the last one. This is not a new question, but
it doesn’t hurt to remind about him in connection with 60
article by S. Grigoriev.

At first the plant was a “dungeon”, where, he concluded
proletarian slave owner-catalist. Factory
is only a means of exploitation.

Every day is the same
The same chair and potty,
“Go out of your way at work,
Out of need, not an inch. `
The same beggarly wages
For labor - bloody sweat,
° The same losses and retributions,
And a mouth full of worries.
’ The same gutta, like a dungeon,
'Keeps us in its asheswell...

(E. Nechaev. “Thoughts”).

It was at the dawn of proletarian literature that
sal old worker—E. Nechaev.

And we encounter this motive later,
almost all proletarian poets.

‚I am an iron chain
,. Forged the Obukhov plant...
x ..I fought chained, wingless,
; All black, covered in coal dust,
My impulses are melting’ strength
In the smoke where the forges blossomed.

(Mich. Gerasimov. - “Chained”).

“As you can see, there is smoke here; and the bugle, against
which S. Grigoriev so furiously rebels against.
So, is Gerasimov “glorifying” them? What
is this a reaction? - No, this is life.

And what about the notorious “truth”?
fight"? r

Pipe—drenched in rusty blood
And the executioner blocking the entrance.

(Aka: “To the plant”).

Well, the trumpet is a sad relic
technical past,” according to S. Gri-
Gor'ev, "glorified" by Gerasimov or
the position of the proletarian, to whom the trumpet is

barred by the will of capital the entrance to the beautiful
big and huge world. And this again—
life.

This life is yy

The ringing of echoing metal,
The evil roar of cars

“whispered ominously” to the proletarian:

"Capital is your master."

-

(Originalist. “Life”).
8th...

Not at all affectionate (yet!)
proletarian to both metal and the machine. Rumble
machines are evil. But this anger coincides ©
the hatred of the proletarian for his servitude
new position, and the same evil roar
Malnin points out to the proletarian his insistence
common enemy, on his master, - "Kalital -
your master." Of course it's the bourgeoisie
very unpleasant, but ‘reactionary’ they may
find only people like S. Grigoriev.

So much the worse for him.

But now the enemy is open, discovered. This is
everything is not an evil, rattling factory, but a capital
talistic system, property system,
with which you need to enter into a “decisive and
last fight." Now the plant helps
Lethari organize, unite for.”
struggle for the Kingdom of Freedom. Plant help
says to the proletarian who came from the fields,
overcome your individualism, merges it
< other comrades in one powerful battle
howl team.

Isn’t that when you were born?

To suffer in a factory all your life,endure,

And die chained to a car?

r (Sadofiev. “At the machine”).
the voice of the fields whispers to the proletarian, and the voice for
water answers:

Don't curse the machines, machines and factories.
...There you wandered obediently, alone,

Here the plant united you all into a union.

There was a lingering creepy choking you there
E spleen

No. 1 (6)

ART.

119

Here the chatter and knock of cars calls for freedom
And it leads you onto a fiery, clean path.

(Ibid.).

So, the talking and knocking of cars, so hated
ny S. Grigoriev, prompts the flying

‘paradise and the means (‹0yuz), and the path of struggle

(calls for Freedom). It is clear why S. Gri-
Gor'ev against "Forge", against "Poetry"
working blow"; but hardly one though
a communist and a worker would consider this reactionary
ZION.

What the bourgeoisie and its literary
representatives accustomed to silence, to ka-
to the binette, the only thing that seems comfortable is disorganized
bathroom, “technical reactionary” noise,
for the proletarian - “talk-knock”, which served
the basis of his songs.

I played these golden, dirty songs
coming days

In the noise of factories, in the screams of steel, in

timid rustle of belts,

...I learned that the wisdom of the world is all

‚ here in this hammer,
In this firm and persistent, and confident
no hand.
..These songs were sung to me by millions of
Losov,
Millions of blueblooded, strong, brave
I hate blacksmiths.
_ These songs are a mighty call to the salt,

life and struggle,

This is an unyielding challenge from an evil,
guest fate.

(Vl. Kirillov).

Maybe this is a counter-revolution, but
it is precisely this “mighty call”, this “challenge
elderly" led us to October.

And with the victory of the revolution, the
petition of the proletarian poet to the factory. This
no longer a “dungeon” where the worker is shackled
with useful chains”, this is a working citadel,
from where the proletariat is rebuilding the world, and
the factory pipe is no longer ‹“drenched in rusty
blood and the executioner blocking the entrance,” and

"a giant's staff in a calloused hand"
what. Proletarian’)

The factory pipe sows sparks
In the hearts of workers and peasants,
We know the flame will soon grow
Over the distance of foreign countries.

(Mich. Gerasimov. “Trumpet”).

True, technology, and, along with it, S. Gri-
Gor'ev "against naked o"Gnya", "against fire-
faiths of all kinds", especially against
"false flares" (false lights), but what
to do if there is no place on the globe,
wherever the sparks of revolution fall, &
“naked fire” walked around the premises quite a lot
cheeky estates and factory owners'
kam, and again this is not a counter-revolution.

So, S. Grigoriev, at best, is not
understood the “factory” of proletarian poetry, in art
shem - deliberately falsified it.

For the attentive reader, the essence of S.
Grigoriev will also become clear from—alas!-—c0-
all the non-poetic & political parts
his steel.

For S. Grigoriev, “everything classical is
maintaining the consciousness of the proletariat, determining
a set of “production relations”
chenii"... seems deeply reactionary
"... "if Karl Marx were resurrected,
at least been to the new one that just opened
that A.S.E.A. factory in Sweden... ok
I would probably introduce serious principles
amendments to their constructions "... (cur-
siv my—S. R.).

There were “violations” louder than S. Grigoriev, according to
parts of amendments, revisions, revisions of the classic
creative content of the consciousness of the proletariat,
determined by the totality of “production”
relations,” and not to him, of course,
using examples of proletarian poetry this is ©o-
distort knowledge.

Vice versa. [Proletarian poetry organiza-
this consciousness is playing, this consciousness is playing
significant role in proletarian poetry and
S. Grigoriev, declaring a reactionary consciousness--
of the proletariat, involuntarily exposes its
120

PORN.

№1 (6)

position. It's not a matter of soot, noise,
“naked fire”, etc., as if sung
proletarian poetry, not in the “technical
revolution" or "technical reaction".

S. Grigoriev himself, perhaps, did not understand
shows how much with his denial he
affirms proletarian poetry.

The word of proletarian poetry becomes de-
scrap of the proletariat..

In his recently published “Literature-
nom diary", in an article about the proletarian
culture, poetess Marietta Shatinyan s0-
I know:

“We (the intelligentsia, people of “cultural
ry"—S. R.) there is a right in the law - and an impossibility
rule in life; pacificzm in the idea - and war
in life; justice in principle—and not
justice in action; philosophy with

departments—and common people, at home; beauty in
museum—and ugliness in everyday life..."

“And here (among the proletarian—S.R.) e.
beginning—not even understanding how this is possible,
in “philosophy” it is one thing, but in reality it is another. Pro-
letarian consciousness demands that “the word
became flesh."

“...The reason for the success and the spread (si-
Marx's principles) in the working environment this is precisely
her connection with her work in life; is she, this-
hour 'is not the only one of the philosophies which,
giving a cognitive scheme of the world, does
her and at once a program of action, not only
teaches, but also ascribes. What to do if
we do not know how to bring philosophy together with
department and with it indicate 7/7 of life. In a word,
hanging in the air, you won’t be full 1).

Especially, we will add, a false word.

Semyon Rodov,

1) Italics throughout M. Shaginyan.

4
A.

The struggle of the proletariat for its class culture
tour, which began in Soviet Russia, did not remain
went without response even among our Western-European
pei comrades. Central Committee of All
Russian Proletkult, has a number of materials,
characterizing the scope, character, content
understanding of the proletcult work of our Western
comrades.

At this point we have reporting data
about the work of Proletkults in Italy, England,
Germany, appreciation of Czech-Slovak comrades
about the support of the proletcults organized by them
com in Czechoslovakia, contact was established’ with
Agretseg Vaspvap ne in Vienna, communication established
with America and only “beautiful France” under
is not yet associated with the auspices of the “Poincaré War”
< us the way we would like. But also
there they know about Proletkult, at least by... articles
{comrade Frans Trea in the magazine "Ca", from-

given by the famous author of “On Fire” and “Light”

Henri Barbusse. In one of the articles of this journal,
^ nala!) T. France Trea gives highly flattering
calls for Proletkult productions in Moscow.

In the “Abroad” department we will give everything -
third-party full coverage of Proletkult,

Abroad.

Proletkult movement in the West.

work in the West and in NNew World comments
and comparative critical coverage of them and
our work.

We believe that direct study
materials characterizing the work of our
Western-European comrades will give our Russians goods
for the greatest clarity of presentation of the
international dissemination of the idea of Prolet-
cult and its practical identification. Below
we print,

1) Program and Charter of the “Institute of Proletarians”
cultural culture" in Italy (Turin). Next-
Here we will give an assessment of both.

2) Appeal from the comrades of the leaders of Ber-
Linsky proletarian theater to friends and members
we don't have one.

Subsequently, the Horn was fired sequentially
will cover the development of Proletkult's work
for individual countries. We ask everyone to
riches who want to pose questions to our
Western European comrades, stupid © them
for a live exchange of opinions—write to us. We are open
We widely use the pages of the Horn for this purpose and have
The magazine “Pro-
Letarian Culture".

Italy.

Institute of Proletcult.
(Section of the Proletkult Institute in Moscow?).

We would like to give a brief account of what
has already been done by the Proletkult Institute, over time
menu its basis and indicate a plan for future action
activity of the Central Committee of the Institute. .

8

1) We print this steel completely re-
water in the trail No. "Torna".
?) That is. section of Ts. K. Ve. Proletkult.

Proletkult Institute, was
in January 1991, by
organizations: School K.
dent-socialists, Com
Group, "Communist"

basics in Turin
initiative of the following
Ultras, Student Circle
not Art. Playback Span.,
some Education”, Group
ne Prof. Scientific, Group of Communists-

Cove, Sanitation Group, and Working Group.
Esperantists who achieved significant milestones this year
solid results.

belt committee in

ate mine
years, i.e. work about

-e. until the November meeting convenes

’
122 E

BURN.

№1 (6)

1921, when, and was replaced by a new one. Central
nym Committee. The temporary committee adopted
functions of the training committee. Already for the first
year of its existence by the Prolet Institute
cult made brich success in terms of experience,
giving Center. The Committee has the opportunity to outline
itself, if not yet fully defined, then, according to
at least, more lazy and firm directives.

That's why, a year after its founding,
thanks to the work of dedicated elements,
deprived of support and support, the mentioned Ko-
The meeting realized the need to change many
points of your practical program and your
Charter, supplementing them with an “ideal premise”, which
with full certainty protects the Central
ny organham, i.e. Proletkult located in
Moscow.

We present this program for your approval.
hope and are happy to contribute to this
brief report.

From the experience of the first year of work, we stated
We believe that the Proletkult Institute is the or-
organism of the most essential importance for pro-
letarian revolutionary propaganda.

It is pleasant and flattering to see how daily In-
The Proletkult Institute is expanding its influence,
and how from the most distant ends of Italy to
Workers turn to Turin for advice and guidance.
knowledge.

Our Institute also communicates with London to-
comrades with whom he exchanges magazines
and collections. With the advent of the monthly
The bulletin that is being prepared, these notes
solutions will become even wider.

I.P.K., without conducting his work directly
mainly on the basis of political struggle, to a lesser extent
is at least under attack from reaction and
thus will certainly be able to achieve
great benefits for the benefit of the Communist Party.

He must strengthen this party, which is in mind
of its purely political functions, will be able to accurately
most of all to understand the most essential forms of revolution
food culture.

But working in this direction, the Institute
takes courage in full support not
only Italy. Comm. party, but especially
and Moscow Proletkult and Comintern.

For the Proletkult Institute the priority
It is also our duty to create Prof. schools.

Attached hereto is extract 06 of this
school, which has been in existence for about two months.

Central Committee of the Proletkul Institute
GA intends to study and prepare schools:
"Commissioners forhousehold parts" and "Inspectors
bureau."

Here we especially need your ©o-
‹ vetah.

However, the Proletkult Institute organized
with the help of fellow doctors, school surgeons,
lu ambulance with real knowledge.

We were invited to this school to enroll.
comrades of the regional communist cells,
The classes continued for more than three
months and gave very, very satisfying
solid results. During the musical art
stical holiday awards were distributed and
diplomas for male and female workers, successfully completed
walking the course. These courses will be resumed
in a few months.

Proletkult Institute in its program
also includes an important point about physical
development, but we still can’t do anything about it
report, because they barely started looking for the possibility
possibilities for creating gymnastics in regional cells
academic halls and other similar institutions.

To develop the ability to create in workers
research, extensive, methodical work has begun, where
the first measure to develop the initiative is
There is already a literary competition at the moment.
All workers can take part in it,
presenting essays in any selected
participants in the form of presenting their thoughts, because
it is indicated only that the essay should
be approximately like a novella.

Works of maximum value
without taking into account the prejudices of modern
literature, will be published in published
Denmark Proletkult, & also received awards
and diplomas.

In conclusion, we would like to add that the Prolet Institute
cult will be published monthly Bulletin
called "Proesi".

The first issue has already been compiled and will be published in January.
Vare 1922

Program of the Proletarskaya Institute
culture.

The rhythm of history especially accelerated in the short
period of the last five years, and every illness
or is less clearly aware of the brewing radical
I smell a profound change. What is currently
currently surrounds her, it is chaos, then witness
what we are is agony; but from this
chaos, a new order must inevitably be born
doc, and atony is a prelude to rebirth
waiting for humanity. Novath class is intended
take control of the political direction
and civil movement. The twentieth century signified
changes without any doubt the era of the proletariat.

Mighty battalions of the workers' army nae 3?

are already on their way to conquering the world.
But in order for the proletariat to be ready
follow the call of history armed with all

R.

a
PS

G.
in

x
№1 (6)

ABROAD.

123

by its regulations, prepared in all
their material and spiritual strengths, necessary
Dimo that he, during this preparatory period,
preceding the final struggle for real
emancipation, took on himself in a decisive
moment the enormous work that makes it up
historical function—full restoration
values of civilization. on

Direct control | social
life in the ashes of progressive expansion of phi-
physical and spiritual goods that make up the meaning
human existence, presupposes the
development of class consciousness among the masses, which
the swarm, however, cannot be formed otherwise than
through persistent and comprehensive restoration
nutritional work. It's not enough to
the working class developed its political community
knowledge in the harsh experience of everyday life directly
civil struggle, led by the existing
for this purpose by a body represented by the communist
parties. Likewise, it is not enough to close
enormous energy of labor in professional
organization, while at the same time accustoming fly-
riat with the help of well-established organs
cooperation to master complex production-
economic and distribution processes
natural organism.

It is necessary to complement the circle of great diversity
outside activities of the world proletariat,
adding to the three indicated forms its class-
the fourth activity, which combines =
understands and completes these last ones: she must
give him direct consciousness of his own

price and provide him’ at the same time’

mastery of the highest blessings of the spirit, thanks to
only by which life acquires for a person
meaning and worth living.

For a number of centuries, humanmasses
were enslaved by the selfishness of a few, and the dark spirits
they, suppressed by ignorance, became unable to
capable of even weak manifestations of intellectual
light and still at present many
combined educational systems used
privileged in relation to the people
classes, cannot develop a peasant's son into
nina or worker of truly scientific knowledge
education that would cultivate in him understanding,
& following those and creative activities in
areas of truth and beauty; these educational
systems, on the contrary, strive to prepare future
slaves of the earth or raspberries, obedient and suitable
tools that could be used
change at the right time, like any thing,
deprived of soul and freedom to choose one way or another
productive activity.

The proletariat will not be able to implement
fulfill your desire for complete liberation

and even less to provide oneself with an inalienable
thus the fruits of his victorious strengthening
research in the field of political and economic
fight, if they are not created in advance for,
future ones coming to replace him. human-
generations of a new form of education, which
which will be a natural direct
expression of his needs, his striving
nies, his ideal of civilization and humanity.

The scholastic type, which is still
tied to the proletariat they oppressed it in two ways
based on church and nationality, as a result
tate of funny or fruitless rivalry"
or the vile compromise between Catholics and
liberals in Italy are sweeping away the working class
now the theory, leaving the possibility
the ability to reject it in fact, only just’
he will be able to overthrow the cruel yoke of his
unsuitable mentors to put on.
their place of work is a product of their own experience,
their class experience. New system, pedal-
gogics, the beginning of which was laid by the genius
great foresight of the best and freest
thinkers based on true interests.
and the actual purpose of a person, can-
can be implemented only by the class
whichit contains human values,
and embodies humanity.

With this ultimate goal in mind, the Institute of Pro-
Letarian Culture is far from wanting
act like the actions of those notorious
ty institutions that, generated by political
the tactics of bourgeois interests in relation to the low-
chy classes, introduce purely passive interactive
way m ‘mind of workers strictly calculated to-
the knowledge of the most general knowledge or works of class
sic poetry.

Poetry, science, art, custom are
to the fullest extent of life forms; every phase
civilization (creates its own characteristics in ©0-
in accordance with its inherent ‘internal
needs, which, in turn, shape
are based on its basic and primary
external needs, and since they are
one or another expression of conscious action
human activity, then we can say that they
are not given in advance, but demands are imposed on him
conditions and conditions of life itself. But produced
the teachings of the spirit are in contrast to the teachings
prey to the creatures of human hands
the existence of amazing incorruptibility and precisely because
to this the first give ever-increasing accumulation’
indestructible treasures inherited by generations
niami in the continuous change of times.

However, in order to be able to:
to use them is required so that consciousness,
perceiving them, she would understand her new de-.

124

VOR

№1 (6)

activity, would become life and authentic
creativity in mastering truth and beauty,
being the highest manifestations
life. Make, © one side, simple, 00-
tattooing the soul of the modern working class
able to understand spiritual life and give
be aware of your own creations, &
© on the other hand, prepare for awakening
of all the creative forces residing in the masses in
covered state for the coming new civili-
lization: this is the goal that In-
Proletkult Institute. Last appeal ©
direct appeal to the governing bodies
mass activity in a variety of areas, and
equally to any personal initiativeive,

who would like to join this

work.
Practical part.

To the extent immediately feasible, the Institute
Proletkulta sets itself the task:

1) Develop the critical mind of workers in
wearing all kinds of cultural scientific, artistic
“the greatest manifestations of modern civilization,
"illuminating those of its elements that are close
soul of the people, in spirit, content, beneficial
influence, collective usefulness, and with
‚another slorona, emphasizing everything that ha-
The character is egoistic, artificial and utilitarian
“Container-claes. In other words, it should
be subjected to severe and merciless criticism in
to promote the growth of the revolutionary spirit,
which is the purpose of the Institute itself.
“For this task we have to be organized and
visits to museums, art
exhibitions and scientific, industrial institutions
nal, agricultural and mineralogical.

2) Use the initiative of workers in business
Creation of a new structure of collective society
responsibility, developing their initiative:

a) in the cultural field - the creation of a school,
called upon to enrich the consciousness of the proletariat by
attention to its origin and development of history
ical activities of classes; then school
‘economic ministers and inspectors
bureau in order to prepare the proletariat for the impossibility
means of managing one’s own interests -
themselves and to his future social role (school
culture, education, technology);

6) in the field of science—by awakening ‘with-
the power of suitable means in the proletariat tmul-
a thorough understanding of modern technology ©
paying special attention to the physical and mental
“the physical education of the worker as a productive
body (Tylorism, Home hygiene, Working
aravo); !

©) in the field of art—collecting and com-
binning ‹spontaneous and (variegate
manifestations of artistic initiative prole=
letariat by understanding the art of truly
human, free from convention and pre-
achievable only under the communist system
(folk theaters, schools of artists, chariots
goddess "Thespi", artistic halerey, ho-
ral and orchestral schools).

3) Giving a new direction to physical recovery
nutrition aimed at strengthening
masses of the people and at the same time eliminating all
certain manifestations that, under the guise of innocent
sports are hidden by low bourgeois profiteering
tions and stimulate the passion for gambling.

To achieve this, the Institute of Proletarian
culture will contribute in every possible way to the education
the name of groups and other associations that put
goal: implementation of this program
(gyms, excursions, etc.).

The purpose of the institute.

Charter of the Institute of Proletarian Culture.

Steam. 1. On the initiative of the proletarian organi-
An association was created in Turin called
"Institute of Proletkult" (Section Moscow-
Sky Inter. Ave.). :

Steam. 2. The goal of the Institute is to expand the scope
Tara movement seeking liberation
from economic slavery, preparing,
encouraging and watching for the awakening of all hidden
creative ‘forces of the working masses for the future
new civilization. To achieve these goals
lei, the Institute will resort to all .special efforts
bam, appropriate, formulated and
goals and pro-
gram of the Institute. b.

Steam. 3. May be members of the Institute
the following institutions: Political, economic
mical, intellectual-physical` cultural
ry, since they work on the basis of class
howl of struggle and manifest their activities in
working environment and in its interests. Perhaps tah-
the individual entry of individuals,
belonging to any of the specified
above institutions.

So there are three categories
members:

a) Institutions, 6) collective, c) individual
ny members. |

Category a) includes all institutions
indicated in the left part of this paragraph..
All those who signed up belong to category 6)
into one of the associations adjacent to the institute
here is the proletkult. K, category c) belonged)

No. 1 (6)

ABROAD.

125

all those that are indicated in the 2nd part of this
of the next paragraph, i.e. enrolled in one of the
institutions that have not yet joinedInstitute
Proletkult. |

Steam. 4. Those wishing to become members of the Institute
Proletkult, they must declare this in writing
in the form attached to this Charter
we are statements. In the event that the application
will be rejected, the petitioner can allege
to the panel of the Arbitration Court, which resolved
asks the question categorically.

Institute resources.

Steam. 5. Receipts of the Institute:

a) Registration fees, entry fees.

6) Voluntary contributions from organizations, separate
ny individuals and groups.

c) Revenue from the conference,
performances or other initiatives,
goals and types of the institution.

Steam. 6. Registration fee for all categories
members' riy is two lira. One-time entry
The registration fee for institutions is 50 liras. Go-
The contribution fee for team members is 3 lira.
Annual fee for individual members -
5 lira

Steam. 7. Institutions can produce their own
payment in one lump sum or in installments, but in
in general for a period not exceeding 12 months.
Upon expiration of the period without any reason,
known to the Central Committee respectfully -
mi, the member must be considered withdrawn, and introduced

This amount is non-refundable.

publishing houses,
responding

Functioning of the institute.

Steam 8. The functions of the Institute are performed:

a) General meeting of members,

6) Central Committee, |

c) the College of Trade Union Representatives,

d) the Panel of the Arbitration Court,

e) Secretary General.

Steam 9. The general meeting of members is the highest
the governing body of the institute; everyone participates in it
members who performed in relation to the last
him all his obligations. Institutions pre-
are installed by one trusted person, equipped with super-
lying mandate. ;

The general meeting of members meets:

a) As usual: every year not
later 'May 31, for critical revision
regulations of the Institute, for discussion and 0do-
review of the annual balance sheet, which is
on April 30, for judgments about moral and physical
financial 'position' of the Central Committee,

Colleges of Trade Union Representatives and Boards
Arbitration Court.

6) In an emergency: everyone. once when
Central tothe committee finds this necessary
or if at least 1/3 of the number of registrants
and those who have paid membership fees submit a request for this
phenomena.

Steam. 10. Ordinary meetings are valid
are admissible for any number of adjectives
present members. For emergency appointments
Denmark must be present at least
1/› registered and contributed members.

Steam. 11. The Central Committee consists of 11
commissioners chosen from among all members.
These commissioners, having entered into the performance of their duties,
possibilities, are chosen from the freedom of the environment:

a) the Secretary General,

6) secretary for internal office work
stva, J

c) cashier-housekeeper.

The meeting of the Central Committee is valid
only if 6 of its members are present.
Trustees from institutions affiliated with In-
constitution, can participate in meetings of the committee
meeting and use an advisory voice.

Steam. 12. The duties of the Central Committee are as follows:

a) discuss and complete all acts that
will be necessary to establish the right
the validity of the mandate received,

6) implement the decisions of the general
members meetings,

c) prepare and submit for approval
expectations of the general meeting, annual balance sheets and
reports specified in clause 9.

d) Convene proxies from institutions
new, as well as ordinary and emergency general
members' meetings, ` ,

e) establish for different branches of culture
special ‘technical commissions’. ‘In every
of the mentioned commissions will have to consist,
at least one member of the Central Committee responsible
before the last one. {

Steam. 18. Representatives from Trade Unions 3.
They must strictly monitor the accounting
teria, perform cash control, composition
submit annual and financial reports, monitor
execution of the provisions of the charter, and decisions of the general
member meetings and participate in meetings
Ts.K., using an advisory voice.

Steam. 14. Members of the Board of Arbitration"
8. They, if required, can settle non-
misunderstandings that arise between members and
between members of the Central Committee in matters relating to
Institute, & also misunderstandings that may
arise due todo interpretation of the present
general charter or regulations of the Arbitration Court.
126 - and

E

№1 (6)

Steam 15. The Secretary General is responsible for
executive and direct executor
decisions of the general meeting of members and the Central Committee,
when the said duty, in a special manner,
not entrusted to others, signs and dis-
prints correspondence and is pre-
representative of the Institute to a third party.

Steam. 16. The internal secretary draws up
minutes of general meetings collection members and Central Committee,
prints out the mail received by C.K.

Steam. 17. The cashier ensures the correctness
membership fees, collects amounts from third parties
persons and makes payments that are always
must be justified by appropriate grounds
documents and certified by Ts.K. Keeps books.

’ Elections and responsibilities.

Steam. 18 Members of the Central Committee of the Collegium, representing
The bodies of trade unions and the Arbitration Court are elected
for 1 year. Any retired member can be
newly selected.

Steam. 19. If member Ts. no. does not correspond
in due measure for its purpose, Ts.K.
may discuss its removal.

Steam. 20: If some members—but no more
3—absent for a year due to reasons
specified in par. 19, or according to others, Ts.K.
may replace them with other members.

General regulations.

Steam. 21. Ts.K. can take discipline
national measures, not excluding removal from the In-
institution, in relation to that member, the conduct of the
which both inside and outside the Institute itself does
his stay at the Institute is unacceptable. Not-
satisfied with the recovery can resort to Bolle-
gii of the Arbitration Court.

Steam. 22. Any change
The charter must be subject to discussion and
approval of ordinary or emergency
general meeting after the pre-event
Domleniya. Paradise |

Professional communist
school.

The Communist Party in “opposite”
The essence of the socialist party feels
the presence in their institutions of people capable
take on the duties of a secretary in a professional
‹national organisers.

This need has become all the more sensitive
is valid when the conquered commuorganists
nizations were unable to work due to

lack of comrades who can hush up the answer."
government posts.

The Institute of Proletkult was thus
forced to create a prof. school with communist
technical directives, which, if it does not give
personal organizers, then at least it will give
opportunity for intended ‘comrades’ to cope
with their tasks; without being too rude
errors. Vocational school, ‘was organized with the co-
action of the comrades of the organizers and now,
two months after its creation and its functioning
onation, we can state some
ry disadvantages inevitable during the initial
bot on the virgin and unexplored

The program of this school is as follows:

Professional Ra Seojeong--federo-
tion—workhouse—congresses.

Professional tasks,

Salary—high cost—overtime hours—

(holidays)—night work (women, teenagers)

ki)—English Saturday—dismissals—holidays
_ki—security—unemployment—labor exchange.

Internal commissions—factory councils—
control over industry.

Cooperation—association—elements of adlin-
strategic law - social legislation
stvo—crippled.

International of Red Trade Unions—history
labor movement.

Political preparation,

Only members can enroll in this school
comm. parties, and at least 22 years of age,

There were 50 people who signed up, but later, when
automatic selection of constantly attending
There are about 20 courses left.

Reasons for students leaving school
blamed on the shortcomings of the school itself. (Inconvenient,
damp, cold basement, under-
became aware of the situation and didactic material
and insufficient training of teachers).

The teachers are almost all workers, having become
by the organizers; although they are filled with goodness
swarm of will, but do not have sufficient
re didactic abilities and often mixed
They set up a school with ordinary services.

Proletkult Institute © consent of the council
schools and the teachers themselves, trying to eliminate
thread of difficulty, suggested teaching ad-
ministerial law comrade. Adv. Signerini, according to
who attended the Higher School, and entrusted him with
coordinated the activities of all teachers
composition, by giving the latter instructions
know how to independently and skillfully

circumvent the lack of much-needed school

le didactic abilities.
School will be a matter of experience for us, and
we have no doubt that after this first

7

3

|

No. 16)

ABROAD.

ba UEFA WARRIORS

127

course we will achieve more over time, but
we would be extremely happy to hear your opinion
and advice from comrades of the Moscow Proletcult.

Committee of the Institute of Proletcult.
The section of the Moscow Proletcult consists of
the following communist comrades:
Gramsci.
Zino Zini.

S.E. Other. Art critic, (music).
Alesio.’ Technician.

Stragioti. Technician.

Botto. Printer.

Cheerio. Carpenter.

Casale. Employee.

Borghi Pietro. Engineer.

"Leonatti. Typographer.

Turin, January 26, 1922.

Germany.

To friends and members of the proletarian
theater
Comrades! =

Despite the stubborn prohibitions of the police,
supported by persecution of the reactionary press, pro-
Letarian Theater, during the winter season,
1920/21, still managed to give up to 50 performances
lei

Print reviews from Kottashzizve AgeNeg
eCipr" ("Communist Workers' Newspaper")
up to “Uoguyt(z‘a” (“Forward”), recognition of the
outstanding achievements and fulfillment even
on the part of bourgeois newspapers, resolutions
personal meetings and conventions and many thousands
friends of the proletarian theater, testifies 0
revolutionary achievements achieved by
Giahira propaganda (Proletarsky
` Theater).

Difficulties that hindered the proletarian
teglru in repertoire terms, subsequently
were eliminated by staging the following plays,
which turned out to be quite resilient, as
from the artistic, & also ideological
ical requests. r

In the fall, with some exceptions, there were
set:

“Pe Kapakeg”, play by ‘t. Jung, whose son
shields of the White Guard government ©nova,
grabbed. In the play we see how the influence of drilling
zhuaz ideology paralyzes and disintegrates the workers
chic class, but at the same time the idea of the proletarian
pride infuses fresh energy into the process of struggle
ly and how the ignorant rudeness of capital
at the cost of his death will give the opportunity to re-
carefully and consciously organize pro-
‚tiv him; .

“Koe UaPe” (Red Banner) writes: “Strive-
experiments on the influence of the content of the proletarian
whom art in a new form, more significant
deeper and deeper than all highly cultivated

>

bourgeois stage works
art - for the proletarian theater, this
big [and creative thing."

"Wogue 5" writes: "In general, this is true
image, which in the future will be
like an autogram of the present tense.”

“Hey! Vasvi 4et Tasv@vep" (“Homemade sausage-
niada"), calamus in 4 acts comrade.
Xevera.

We laugh fiercely at this
RABIK" (as it is called in this grotesque, German-
Chinese "Democratic" Republic) Mr.
Stinnes, which we can safely consider only
masquerade and homemade sausage.

“MazNte” (“Machine”), American W. Sinclair
whose novels are familiar to the general public.

Terrible is the power of enslavement of mankind
loy of the soulless idol of capital. Even the most
the smallest particle of love is lost to man,
dominated by the golden calf. Ka-
everyone who lacks the courage to become
mortal enemy of this monster, hopelessly
disappeared.

"Voye Zo]a(ep" Vvanav soldiers"), play
Comrade Wittfogel, who is in incredible drama
tical voltage shows collision
forces of reaction © socialism and necessity
implementing the latter as the highest
measures of proletarian discipline.

“Ta4a” (Judas)—work drama by comrade. Muzam,
written last vo at ‘being in
prison

On this occasion, “Eto Wei” (“Freedom”) wrote
says: “The will emanating from the midst of the masses stretches
in the revolution. Everyone sacrifices themselves, feeling
acts as a single body of mass and as its own
gives his love to his best friend - tense
the action is condensed so that the dialogue
driven by involuntary cries of the visual
telny hall—and when the Marseillaise is released-
expectedfrom the curses of Judas, five thousandth mass
128

A: ,

No. 1 (6)

sa stands up (visitors to a Munich performance)
and enthusiastic approval flows in chorus from
from the audience's mouth."

Comrades, everything is hidden in the working masses, from
it depends on her that the proletarian theater, as a co-
cialist organization, achieved recognition
and was able to line up as perfectly as possible and in
economically. After all, this is a question about
mentality of the workers, though brought up under
influenced by bourgeois cinema and stage, but enough
are they organizationally related?
institutions so that they could be considered
regulars at these institutions of bourgeois ideology
ology, so that artistic and propaganda
The social significance of the proletarian # theater is completely and
had no influence at all in contrast to
in a false sense. But the question remains:
the possibility of further operation of the pro-
Letarian Theater in one-time premises of the Bur-
zhuaz entrepreneurs and whether they will provide
to help in the construction of the stage, © of which we
we want to promote our worldview,
Everything speaks for the need to reschedule the
producers of the proletarian theater in the big theater
atral room.

That propaganda work that you did
patching up your class sadness, your
meetings should also be held
and through the proletarian theater. |

In the summer months, when the proletarian performances
the theater will not be able to be staged, it is necessary
use all friends and members of the proletarian
sky theater for propaganda and organizational
work to strengthen the latter.

The question must be posed in full
about strengthening our organization so that
by winter we already had rich material
and spiritual resources.

Only on the basis of these preliminary measures,
Having fulfilled this duty to the proletarian theater,
it will be possible to provide the last bolt with comfort
premises and generally enhance the artistic
high quality of deliveries. This will give a solid support
ru and for our propagandists.

Comrades, support our propaganda—
entrust this to your references - invite us
on your ownquarrel—coordinate your decisions

changes towards receiving and distributing.

knowledge of our artistic materials (plays) and
organize performances through our software
relics (artists).

Establish a connection with Us.

People born body and soul for the class
owl fight, if they are viable—should
deeply feel and clearly imagine that
their struggle is a class struggle for higher
forms of human society,

This idea is propagated by the proletarian theater.

letei-,

ze =

Criticism and bibliography.

Stages of development of Latvian proletarian poetry.

The future historian of proletarian poetry will not
undoubtedly you will have to fix your gaze on those
modest books and manuscripts, which,
starting from 1912, to this day they represent
from itself the poetry of the Latvian proletariat.

The Latvian proletariat, in conditions quickly
developing large industry at the end
twentieth century, managed to unite sufficiently in
economic, political, cultural power
and put forward, albeit in limited quantities,
ties, their class writers and poets.
The characteristics of this poetry, in general terms,
We will try to give it in real steel.

In the nineties of the last century, ©
rapid development of large industry in Lal-
viii, the newborn is concentrated in the cities
Klaoss—Latvian proletariat. At first he didn't
represented a single class whole.
Ideologically, he was subjected to revolutionary treatment.
tion intelligentsia, so-called. "new trend"
(“ampa z(gavzua”), among which stood out
these—Rainis, Eduard Veidenbaum, Aspasia, etc.

Without stopping at Rainis, about whom we
We will talk below - Veidenbaum and Aspasia
were only more or less revolutionary
new romantics.

Their poetry is a protest against the stereotyped, sentimental
mental, national “social”
opinions" of the Latvian bourgeoisie and its art in
in general.

In their poetry we hear echoes of that social
the storm that was destined to break out
in the famous, especially for the Baltics,
revolution of 1905.

If Aspasia, who spoke in her poetic
personallyx and dramatic works, as in
champion of the idea of complete liberation and s0-
social and political equality of women,
then Eduard Veidenbaum castigated the old social

Bugle No. 1 (6).

education in the field of religion, philosophy and everyday life.
Of course, both poets had little to do with the life of their
of the bourgeois class, but the working class Khass was brought up
their creativity.

The Latvian proletariat did not yet have its own
own poets, although published in 1903
my book by Rainis “Distant chords of the blue ve-
Chera" made a whole revolution in the field of la-
Tysh art in general and poetry in particular
sti.

— “Distant chords of a blue evening” is a manic
revolutionary fest, declaring “rights and obligations”
preoccupations" of the new person, the typical representation
whose witness was the author of the book himself—
poet Rainis. Rainis definitely called for a fight,
to throwing off all the chains that bound la
Tysh proletariat tsarism and local government—
barony and national bourgeoisie. But it's dirty
The revolution of 1905 began.

And suddenly a whole galaxy of revolutionary
poets—Ya. Michelson, Karl Kruse, Karl Skal-
be, Jan Akurater, Apsesdels, but louder and sound-
of all of them—I. Rainis.

His new book of poems “Sowing a Storm” (published
1905) made a huge impression in
reading mass. ъь

“Sowing a Storm” - Latvian poem “About the Storm”
nick." The spirit of this book was lived by the rebel
clan—urban proletariat, rural farm laborers
and the petty bourgeois intelligentsia. True,
the latter was closer to her singers,
naughty Skalbe, Kruse and Akurater, who
although they gave less artistic material,
but it seemed that they were still more popular in the thicker
the masses. After all, the current modernist
Akurater wrote a unique Latvian language
funeral march, which is tsked by Latvian
communists at the funeral of comrades, dis-
shot by the "democratic" government

9
130

MOUNTAINS:

No. 1 (6)

Latvia, whose ideologist is now
this Akurater...

Leaving aside the creativity of those mentioned
singers of “struggle and storm”, for this is the task of a special
cial essay, I will only dwell in more detail
only on Rainis, this Latvian Fraley-
grate - Verhaerne, whose poetry remained
closer to the ears and minds of the Latvian proletariat,
although both he and the entire group of revolutionary
poets were not, I repeat, prolet®r-
Chinese singers and poets. And this is understandable, because
the revolution of 1905 was not a revolution
proletarian. And this subsequently affected
black reaction band and general stagnation of
developments of social thought. Reaction period
until 1912 he gave us none
example, even a faint hint that the proletarian
Proletarian art, proletarian poetry is coming.

A group of “revolutionary singers” went into mi-
sticism, modernism, along with © our Russians
hollogs - Vyacheslav. Ivanov, Valery
Bryusov and Fyodor Sologub—in literary
great decadence and obscurantism; were engaged in cleaning
waving and spitting on their recent ideas
fishing both in the political sphere and in
literary.

Only Rainie remained. His book “The Silent Book”
ha" (higher 1906)—a monument to numerous
famous, famous and unforgettable graves,
symbols of the revolution that took place. But the flight-
riat—klaee victorious, its historical
the mission belongs to the future and the great Kch-
titus depends on the outcome of its organization,
ideological maturity and comprehensive class
struggle. ‘Class struggle has always been
the main core of the life and existence of the proletariat.
And for this you need to have an organized
strength and ideological consciousness of their goals.

And it was in vain to think that the Latvian
The Chinese proletariat, during the period of reaction, was dozing.
On the contrary, I was preparing. And therefore it is not surprising
It is clear that when the Lena strike broke out
followed by the execution of workers when shi-
a fatal wave of protest raised almost the entire Russian
the Latvian working class, the Latvian proletariat
ended up next to him. And almost simultaneously
with Russian proletarian poetry arose and
poetry of the Latli proletariat. When I write-
The one who wrote these lines flipped through the pages of “Stars”
and “Pravda” and with deep joy and delight
drank into the first works printed there
donia of proletarian poets—Samobytnik, Ge-
Rasimova,Gmyreva, Filinpchenko and others, then
here in Riga at the same time, also in
workers' newspapers published the first poets of la-
Tyšek proletariat—August Bruklenais,
Petr Sviris, Petr Veinie, Shalkon, A. Shva-

be 1), and some others. In the province of printing
said Eduard Schiller:

In 1912, a book of poems by Ya. Kar-
wedge "Torch".

In 1913, Veinis’s book “At the Factory”
& a little earlier, Shalkon’s book “The First
sunrises" and Bruklenais - "Distant Bells".

This creative work was interrupted by the world
howl disaster of 1914, when Latvia
was a springboard for military operations when
factories and factories were evacuated (1915)
to Russia, when the Latvian proletariat
began to exist as a single collective, as
a cohesive, organized mass.

And if the Latvian proletarian poets left
underground and fell silent, then their recent commodities
riches according to the pen - Shvabe, Karklin and even Rainis
moved to the patriot camp and thus
completely abandoned the proletariat. 4 years, silent about-
Letarian lyre. Only February and most importantly
Thus, the October Revolution liberated her.

In the October Revolution, the Latvian prolet-
Tariat was in Russia’ in its fortposts, nearby
with the Russian proletariat. From here subsequently
this ideological connection has grown in all areas
struggle for a socialist republic, for
building a new culture. Comrades
weapons on the fronts, became inseparable
creators of a new culture, art, poetry.
And the current bards of la-
Tysh bourgeoisie—Eduard Virza, Victor Eg-
Pavel Rosit is also lit, who babble that
the birth of “Latvian national culture”
depended on the rich and ancient French
culture, that in its footsteps development should follow
tie culture of the Latvian people. Let it comfort you
these knights of Baudelaire's "Be Neitz" are fooling themselves
Chisha} *), - to the Latvian proletariat and its
This story charts a different path.

And this perfectly confirms creativity
Latvian proletarian poets. True, for 4
year of the October Revolution Latvian prole-
Tara poetry did not have timereveal and formalize
all your creative potential.

1) Arved Shvabe—an intellectual, at the beginning of his
her poetic activity joined the prole-
Tariat. His first story “How Dobulo visited
at the Gray Baron", amazes with the sharpness of the plot and
richness of style. In 1915, he, together with
this Karklin moved to the camp of social agreement
telians and even reactionaries. Karklin is now in
White Latvia composes “odes” in religious
spirit; Schwabe is a government socialist
and ideologist of “national” art.

2) “Gez Neigs Cup”. "Flowers of Evil"

#

_

``yeah...

2)

№1 (6)

CRITICISM AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.

131

This was prevented by numerous conditions
viya. Conditions of a purely internal, emigrant
character. If the galaxy of Latvian proletarians
poets, the most prominent representatives of the
of which are - LPetr Sviris, Alvil Tsen-
lis, Eduard Schiller, Karl Ozol - Prednek,
Pelekais is recognized as an official party
criticism, although not all critics personally,
And what is most important is recognized by the reading public -
by the proletariat, it cost them strain
wifely struggle with a number of undeserved attacks
Like a “historical” literary pamphlet,
this document of the most vile renegade de-
magic directed against proletarian art
`arts in general, like a writer’s book and a cri-
art by Andrey Upit “Proletarian Art”

^ (I gave a brief review of it in the magazine

“The Coming”, like a review of “critics”—Tur-
ka, Imuna it. under.

Thanks to these conditions, we only have the following
The following list of publications:

A. Literary almanacs:

1) Collection of proletarian writers (1918).
`(Ed. Cult. Proev. Subdepartment, Latotdel, Nar-
room).

2) Collection of poems “Red Threads” of the union, lat.
prol. writers. 1919 (Pub. Petrogradsk.
Proletkult). |

8) “Fire and Flowers” (1920), (ed. Kharkov.
`Lat. Com. Club "Darbe")

B. Collections of individual authors.

1) “Labor, struggle and victory” - Shalkona. (Poems
ed. years subdepartment Department of Education national
ny minorities of the People's Commissariat for Education. 19921).

. “I sing revolutions” - Schmidt - Birois.
(WITHquiet 1921), (ed. the same).

B. Magazines dedicated to literature and
art.

1) “Darba Zvans” (Bell of Labor). It came out
3 no. Petrograd. Ed. Latvian. Slave. Theater.
1918-1919

2) “Labor Morning”. 3 issues came out. Ed. Cult.-
Ave. Subdepartment Latotd. People's Commissariat. M. 1919

3) “Shooter” (6 issues were published).

4) “Red Star” (coming out now—out now)
10 nom.).

Of course, poets had and have unpublished
new manuscripts that are awaiting publishers.
. “In addition, literary works were published
supplements to the newspapers “Krevijase Tsina” (Moscow),
Tsinya (Riga), Strelnex (Velikiye Luki) and
"Communist" (Petrograd).

And this, unfortunately, exhausts the entire
literary contribution, which is Latvian. proletarsk
poets have invested in the treasury of history about
letarian poetry.

Few, extremely few, quantitatively.

What about the quality? And the quality is weak, they will say,
the above critics. But let's leave it! aside
venerable critics, with their experience of defeating everything
something new that has not been done according to the standards of their literary
new stencil. The proletariat is the class of progress and
development. He had no time for long
years of swarming in the dust of the labors of bourgeois luminaries
different literature. He doesn’t deny it, but rather
looks at her critically, studying, takes what he
necessary. This is what the Latvian proletarians did too.
poets. True, we did not and still do not have one
different opinion in relation to the literature of the past
logo Phenomena are observed when some
poets (I. Eiduk, Vold, Yakobson) are carried away
a kind of petty-bourgeois-intellectual
aestheticism and often fall into revolutionary
rhetoric. There is a current (Alvil, Tseplis, Peter
Swiris and Robert Eideman 1), striving for, le-
Vizne untmanovsky Verhaerne mixed style
la, deliberately expelling from his creativity
lyrical moment, providing the main place
intellectual concept of experiences. This
the group published the collection “Ovitz un Zee” (Fire
and flowers). These include Latvian
"gastevista"—K. Yokuma. Next we observe
group, so-called revolutionary realists—K. Pe-
Lekais, Schmidt-Birois, K. Silins, who
againafter all, they fall into quite a state; and very, simplified
extreme extreme of naked propaganda of communism.
But along with the realists we also encounter “revolutionary
Revolutionary Romantics and Impressionists"
(Schiller, Astra, Peter Veinis, Shalkon, Veena",
which retained almost entirely the old form
and stencil images. In what follows we have
the poetry of the Latvian shooters, however, now
relegated to the history of the civil war, but
at one time carried within itself great powers
opportunities and aroused great hopes,
whose most prominent representatives were—
Peter Lavin, the above mentioned K. Pelekais and
many others.

As for the content of the works above,
of the mentioned directions, then it is certainly
revolutionary-communist. Of course, there is
There is a variety in the choice of topics. Some re-
they sing about labor, revolution, factory; others for
touched most of all by purely psychological
problems; still others stop at household ones

1) His poem “The Elder” was published in the journal
"Krasnaya Nov" gallery No. 3, 1921

9+
132

RFR:

questions, glorify natural phenomena, etc.,
but in not a single poem you will find
meaningless chatter. Of course it would-
There are some exceptions, such as Pet-
rograde group (I. Eiduk, Y. Yulian), which
who sometimes, instead of poetry, offer revolutionary
national phraseology, which in our environment is
They call it “bombism” (from the word bomb).

But these are exceptions.

By finishing with real steel, we can change-
It would be fair to say that despite the fact that part of the la-
Tysh proletariat is under the yoke of “their
to her" bourgeoisie in Latvia, where about the possibilities
for the development of proletarian poetry it is now possible
speak very carefully, the remaining and you-
the galaxy of Latvian people who grew up in Soviet Russia
proletarian 'poets will continue their

business, improving your creativity, like ©0_
both content and form, in constant
active search for new content - new

forms, new images, which, in the end, will
leads Latvian poetry to its historical _
purpose - to be a great organizing force.

proletarian psyche, inteacher and guide -

her star in the era of revaluation of psychological
cultural, moral and aesthetic problems, c.
the era of the proletarian revolution.

No. 18 |

Scarifier. r y

R. 5. In the near future Latsection
All-Russian Association of Proletarian Writers
Lei publishes a collection of Latin proletarian _
poetry in Russian, which will serve,
perhaps an illustration for this article. 1

*

Novels by A. Bibik.

V№ 1-3 journal. “Creativity” for 1921
chatan novel by A. Bibik “On the Black Stripe”,
which is a continuation of the novel “Towards the Broad
road", which appeared for the first time in the magazine
"Modern World" 1912 (July - November).
The novels reflect two different... following
one after another, eras. liberator development
of the new movement of the Russian proletariat.

The first novel depicts the rise of a revolutionary

nal and class consciousness of the proletariat, its
the painful burden “towards the broad road” of life,
talks about how the hero of the novel is a mechanic
Ignat Pasternak grows stronger spiritually, breaks with
old traditions and, having survived the inevitable fight-
mu "Fathers" and "Children", leaves the warm corner
parents, narrow-minded philistines, are overwhelmed by a stormy
flow of revolutionary struggle, ends up in exile
‘ku, is interested in an intelligent girl and,
when the revolution of 5 years breaks out, it becomes
leader of the masses, boils in a stormy, impetuous war
the end of events, and when the revolution suffers
` defeat, preparing for a new everyday work-
both. at
In the second novel, the “black
strip" after the revolutionary reaction, here
different notes are already sounding. Black veil of melancholy
clothed all my life. The working class is tired and
hopelessly gave up on the future. In tenacious
Yesterday's fighters froze in the arms of despair.
The novel ends with characteristic lines:
“Kloto sighed. And the silence stretched on.
The night was also silent.”
The hero of the novel, Ignat Pasternak and the author,
I think it's the same face.

- “What Ignat experienced in the family, at the factory,
in prison, exile in 1905,” says in pre-

words to the novel “On the Broad Road” - V. Lvov- |

Rogachevsky, who knew Avtorah—“all this”
the former worker of the Kharkovskys also survived -_
railway workshops Bibik, and not only-_
ko survived, but also reacted the same way.”
Valuable documents of entire historical |

eras are these biographical novels. 1

These are the first great novels for the worker.
workers.

Not to mention the fact that proletarian life
and Bibik gives psychology in a new light
“from within,” he introduces and points to the literature.
re a new hero—a proletarian intellectual with
a peculiar psyche developed by new
social conditions. \ :

Ignat is, first of all, a deep collectivist.

with a rich personality and colorful mi-
worldview.

In the diverse flow of events and persons Ignat.
seeks the truth of the collective,
is himself. His personal truth is where the truth is.

th

a particle of which

UH

team. s

Individualism is alien to Ignat’s nature. "Soul, |
strangling - we talk a lot about the soul, & in truth.
I said I'm running around with my darling more than anything. B
th. And that's not the point. Go outside. With whom. at
you merge. With those who are on your way. One
purpose, cooperation—knit people together enough—
strong." I

This is how Ignat objects to his friend Artem. Yode_
This trait emerges more clearly and sharply, psychologists |
Ignat's chess in dialogue with the old.

B

No. -

#

=

<

#
No. 1 (6)

CRITICISM AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.

133

r, and

Shurba, which took place ‘after the incident with
anarchist Pavel.—“That’s not the point of Romano-
HIV,” Ignat answered sadly, “whenever every
be a barchuk, or an anarchist from among the barchuks puts

_ himself the center of the universe and does not care about anything

collectivity through the lip is, of course, the name
. It's a shame, but it's still understandable. But when
don't care, ours starts playing superman
but a brother who grew up in public is ‘not for me
understandable. Wild” (p. 227).

Ignat is a harmoniously developed personality, com-
melting a rich individuality with a subtle spirit
khovny organization. He feels and rhythms vividly
‘we are factories, and the rhythms of nature, and creation
hearts. The team for Ignat is part of
nature, the great cosmos. ;

In this respect, he is broader than his friend Ar-
topic, countrywhich in a unique way contained within itself
collectivism with individualism.

Artem merges with the team to the extent that

_ because it is a means for him to find

his personal truth. He searches and doesn't find
it contains bright, strong individualists. From-
here his skepticism, embitterment, disappointment
in people and the inevitable isolation from
` collective, leading to suicide. On this
Friends discuss this topic more than once.

“With people, it means that everything is not torn with me.
And this is what I'm afraid of, because, Ignat,
the day when this connection is broken - poniya
are you waving?..

- “And nature, and the inner world?”

“What?” Artyom asked, as if slightly
surprised and thoughtful, looking out the window. - “No
> I know, that is, it’s not that, but the main thing is
in people, Ignat, in the human” (p. 104).

— “The main thing is the attitude of man to nature
“de,” says Ignat.

Ignat against individualists - “wood-
clones" running into the forest with their lonely
honor.

- “It is necessary to get the steel as close as possible to the application.”
kind of thing,” he says to the intellectual girl Nina
in a conversation about “Pan” by Hamsun. - “But why, Nina,
throw a person out of nature. Of course everything
these Hamsuns love nature and are moved by
rotten stumps, but is he really a man?
worse than this stump.”

In contrast to Artyom, indifferent
to nature, Ignal! connected with her most tenderly
with buried feelings.

Walking from Artyom, who lives in the city, according to
mouth and narrow, like a rocky pit, street,
`Utnal, looking around, asked Artyom:

.  - “Where is the sun here?”

Artem nodded his head across the street:

- “It seems there. I know what's going down there
somewhere behind these houses."

Ignat smiled.

- “And the stars are kind of stunted. They don't like it.
your fire. Come someday to No-
voselovka. Or we'll go out into the field. You'll see
stars. And the corncrakes are making holes... Quails.....

Ignat is a romantic. Harsh reality
it translates into cheerful, intoxicating sounds.

Inspired by the opera "The Huguenots" he
breaks out:

“If only people always lived like this to music
or convinced themselves that life is beautiful and
will force himself tolisten to the music."

He rushes forward to a bright future, re-
turns it into a fairy tale.

Ignat's romanticism is romanticism, raising
class, feeling oppressed by the current
enough to be a rebel, but
enough, fresh, so that, feeling your growth
illuminate your rebellion with the light of hope.

The ideal of such romanticism is real, practical
ical and, most importantly, inevitable in the
dimensions of the historical course of things.

Because the author is busy with Ignat, the masses are not
fades away. The author amazes with diversity
pronounced individualities, state-
contributing to the mass.

Here is old in years, but young at heart, seeking
teller of truth, naive, good-natured Zhurba.
Direct, sensitive, sincere, full of enthusiasm,
among children he is a living reproach to the “fathers.”

And with a sharp contrast next to © it highlights-
there are figures of Maxim—father Ignat and the turner
Kostychev—father. Typical representatives of the pro-
letarian fathers - philistines with a narrow ideology of ma-
lazy, well-fed well-being, they are vaguely
they feel the truth of the “children”, but do not accept it ^
they can.

True, their life is doomed to destruction. And when
she dies, repentance sets in,

“I lived my life like a fool”—with regret
Maxim confesses when he becomes sick,
disabled person unable to work.

- “May she be cursed thrice, this ra-
bot. I can't walk on this dog walk anymore
pipe She spent her whole life, exhausted her entire soul,
this work." He exclaims.

But the revolt was too late. The factory squeezed it out, somehow...
mon, took away my health and doomed me to premature
new death.

But the working bourgeois youth: Asmolev-
sky and Chernitsin.

These are ashamed of their working hands, they betray
themselves for the clerks. The purpose of their life is to drink,
show off, play around.
134

BURN:

No. 1 (6)

Next come the characteristic figures: Stepam,
Ignat's comrade, who, out of ambition, went to
anarchists, Kostychev bilious, hater
party intelligentsia, Novikov,
fallen in the revolutionary struggle, fallen in spirit
home after the first inevitable shock.

All these individuals are typical
representatives of various internal
factionsamong the proletariat.

Types of revolutionary intellectuals are significant
much paler. The image of teacher Ignat-Ganovich,
being an exponent of the sentiments of a certain
part of the party intelligentsia, not bright,
not deeply thought out, but captured enough
right. For the Ganovichs, the cause of the revolutionary struggle is
would be a high, heroic feat; they are also “ro-
mantics", they enjoy romantic
narcissism of one’s feat; work
them in the party must be redeemed by “special benefit”
gift" on the part of the workers.

Between Ignat and Ganovich takes place in
link explanation that dramatically reveals the reasons
alienation of the Ganovichs from the masses.

“Ganovich walked for two minutes in silence, squeezing
head with hands. There was a bilious streak on the lips
smile, eyes looked sad. When he speaks
ril again, his voice was now dull, now hoarse,
bark, then unexpectedly sharp and screaming,
as if he was shaking with a fever.”

“We expected a different attitude. And after that
what we did for the benefit of the entire movement, after
all the sacrifices we made, we are right
were expecting it... I don’t regret, of course, about
caused to victims. Let it be so, but before
Do you, gentlemen workers, put it... however
It's hard for you to understand this. Well, what do you have to lose?
entering the path of struggle. Prison, exile. But,
after all, this cannot cause you any special distress,
Denmark because you are used to hardship.
But when a person gives up comfort,
ruins a career, even personal happiness - this is
you know, it's worth something. Look, I broke-
a tired, sick person, no longer capable of sitting
active activities, I hardly moved in my
development. Meanwhile "...

Ganovich stopped. Ignat was afraid that he
burst into tears and involuntarily stood up. But then
Ganovich continued for a minute:

“Today, for example, I received a letter from
one comrade. He has already graduated from college,
receives a large salary, participates in non-
how many public organizations does he write...
and, in general, does more than I do. And the other
goy... another one married my fiancee.

- “So you repent?”

Ganovich threw a frightened
look.|

disappointing-`

- “No... And it would be useless. But I
I don’t see my work.”

- “And you want her to throw herself at everyone?”
eyes."

- “I look at my work as you -
fulfilling my duty, Comrade Ignat.”

- “Well, then, be satisfied -
are delighted with the knowledge that you have completed it.”

Ganovich jumped up from the bench.

- “You are cynical today, comrade.

- "May be. And it also seems to me that you
You require some special gratitude from us.”

- “Allow me Pasternak...

“Well, then I don’t understand you at all”?
Ignat finished abruptly and again stretched out on the
bed

Ganovich pulled his coat tails around him and turned
to the door. : |

“La you are right. We don't understand each other well
ha.” He said as he left.

Ganovichi can never merge with the masses,
cannot deal with the struggle of the proletariat for the liberation of
the desire to recognize as one’s business, and, of course,
workers for whom labor is a vital matter,
when they don't understand them.

The tragedy of the Ganovichs is that they are unable to
are able to notice that their “pupils”
have outgrown them spiritually and can teach them a lot
their former teachers.

But the author does not idealize the workers either. In a number
scenes and descriptions he truthfully reveals them

Negative qualities: the rebuke to these is strong

stvam Bibik puts into the mouth of the non-party ra
Bochego Peregudov, and in the person of his autot
gives psychology the so-called. non-party, sympathizing
working masses. These masses, for many reasons,
we are not in the party, but in soul they are in it, inte-
Res worries her sometimes 0.-m. more than not
which party.

“Of course there was our sin,” he says at the rally
Peregudov. “We thought, for example, according to the gospel
and so on... Well, the truth has just come out to you
on the neck side, the macules, therefore, have eyes
more quickly." “We have a lot of junk! in my head" is aware
Xia Peregudov, “it’s not digested so quickly,
I've gotten used to the old stuff. Again, family. That
se. After all, you are young, more free birds. A
where should we go?”

Ingenuously and simply scourging non-party people
old people, Peregudov does not want to spare those “couples”
tion" who "carve the thread from the wrong end-
zhut."

“It turns out that there too(in the party) not without
sin. At first all the cats were gray,
Well, then you’ll take a closer look. But, between pro-
I mean, what are the reasons? If we say you are not a social
"Democrat means scoundrel."

5

No. 1 (6)

CRITICISM AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.

185

“Look,” he lovingly warns—“how
would these precocious social democrats appreciate your
the weight hasn’t been spoiled.”

(With sincere pain, he points at the patient
place of party work: “All words and resolutions”
tions, & there is no business. This is also the reason.
It’s clear for you to talk, the demonstration is safe
or whatever, but our business is not young.
It's time to get some work. Aren't we
knew that if there was a disease or something - just l0-
live and die. And you are all words.”

After the collapse of the revolution, Ignat, having taken a sip-
enough of everyday menial work,
reduced the romanticism. Because it’s no longer needed
fairy tale, & “you need numbers”—you need to “tell the level”
ki, did patiently everyday work. But praise
“Are you strong enough?” asks Ignat. To this question
The next novel, “On the Black Stripe,” provides the answer.

In the novel "On the Black Stripe" Ignat is
a mentally broken person. It doesn't have that one
certainty and clarity that in the first stage
mane. Ignat lost his mental balance; he
is experiencing a difficult internal drama intellectual
the ligent of the worker, separated from the masses, by the new
inevitably, the prevailing social conditions
Via the black reaction band. with

'It was night, the road in it seemed like this
hopelessly distant, that self-confidence was extinguished,
in your own strength. Don’t get there, don’t wait for it -
forging diy."

So, through the prism of Ignat’s moods, the author
characterizes the “black streak”.

“The flowers flew around, the lights burned out.” Tired
disillusioned working masses, demoralized
bathroom in a reactionary environment, waved
everything with her hand, she turned away from the leaders.

Ignat felt the rising
there is a wall between him and the mass. To prove
mass, that he is young with her, that he is ready for her
any sacrifice, ‘even senseless,
Ignalt does a crazy thing, goes to the factory
e deputation, surely knowing that he was there
awaiting arrest. r

Ignal' deeplyanalyzing himself, maybe
he is the culprit of the alienation of the masses. Yes he knows
that he has “become intelligent”, has significantly outgrown
working masses, but also knows that “never,
Qi did not stop understanding this for one minute
mass and acutely felt his closeness to her
n the suffering she experienced."

In desperation, Ignat is ready to alienate
ability to consider your intelligence. Time
fit, he understands them, but they... How
many feelings and thoughts remain undivided
and response.

The former close proximity no longer exists.

Left without leaders, the masses gave up on everything

hand; some went into philistinism, others struck
got drunk, etc.

Ignat can’t help but root for them in his soul. U
bursts out from him: “The proletariat, the standard-bearer of its
body and new high morality, oh, how he
unsightly ^in {his everyday life, how dark and wild he is
and selfish"!

Life in a dark period required
strong nerves; new heroes were needed, heroes
everyday unnoticed work.

And Ignat could not be such a hero. How
romantic, not noticing the contradiction between
romantic “take-off” and harsh, unsightly
In reality, he was only capable of
to a bright, impetuous rush.

‘He can’t, physically can’t, painstakingly
and slowly build a cooperative day by day -
shops, unions, or engage in circle-
kami workers dreaming of cards, drinks,
cannot help but light up with a bright flame, in
probable voltage, ‘at least for an hour, for a minute
chickpeas and then go out. forever.

ABOUT! he has enough strength for this.

The discrepancy between “romance” and “reality”
differences" gives rise to a confusion of diversity in Ignat's soul.
okay. y:

The romanticism of the revolutionary rebel is not mi-
struggling with fatigue and sad indifference
whose masses sometimes turn into pessomism.

Just recently, fighting on the barricades,
throwing fiery speeches to the masses about the capture
power, about the rule of the proletariat Ignat go-
says: ] y

“How sad this is. What a long way ahead
The proletariat still has to go through it in order to
be ready for your high mission to
instill in yourself a feeling ofresponsibility" - "And me-
I expect there are people who meanly flatter
and shouted about the full readiness of his flight -
Riata. About the readiness to take control of the state
quality And what a state—Russia!”

Ignat’s romanticism manifests itself even in relation to
commitment to party work. "He was offered
take party work © with some payment,
but he refused to take payment for the work, & ra-
the bot was needed primarily by his greedy
spirit. Whatever it is, this corner is his
souls, souls, romance must remain un-
touched. Become a professional official.—
Yes, never."

And it’s quite understandable why Ignat poured in
satisfaction in the work of a writer-artist. This
the work gave rise to his romantic feelings,
hungry for bright colors, bright hopes, golden
eager for new battles.

Having broken away from the collective, from the masses, having
Being lonely, Ignat naturally began to look for
136

9-E

№1 (6)

another connection with life, he built a bridge between
life, people and ©0b0y “from thin lace
female love"—got along with a revolutionary girl
civil servant Nina from the philistine-intellectual alien to him
ligent environment. ‚Connection © Nina was one
from the causes of mental brokenness and duality
ness of Ignat. This calico revealed deep pro-
contradictions between representatives of two alien friends
friend classes. First mutual misunderstanding,
then hidden, & subsequently revealed
protest and struggle, hard struggle for almost
throughout the novel, this is the result of this
communications.

'The image of Nina, which barely stands out in the novel
“Towards the broad road”, stands out sharply and clearly
sings in the novel “On the Black Stripe”. Nina-—"‹kaz-
ka", a beautiful mirage is replaced by a genuine one
real character.

Nina in the first novel, tenderly making peace
with inhuman conditions of exile, calming
strong in moments of despair
hanged Ignat, Nina, in the revolutionary movements
under fire from soldiers calmly leading to
feeling a pregnant woman and calling Ignat
on the risky undertaking of lifting the siege
from the factory—this Nina now feels un-
spite towards Ignat for his dirty hands from work,
for the smellhis sweat, for rude unintellectual
expressions. She can't go to the theater with him,
because she doesn't have a new dress, hers is already
doesn’t care, she doesn’t care about the fate of
letariat.. |

The key to this change is that
that Nina is a socialist” “theoretically” - according to the book
hello.

The first youthful impulse of passion disappeared;
the theory remained dead. And it’s far from
you'll leave. Th petty-bourgeois petty-bourgeois
Nina’s kind “turns out in the gut.” She is passionate
repents of love game © attached Don
Juan-Valerian, because “outwardly he

was elegant, smelled of fine perfume and
sang quite well. And most importantly, he was always able to negotiate
satisfy her wishes, treat her to fresh chocolate,
which she madly loved, to render a little
what a favor, to say a compliment, a little two-
meaningful, but sweetly flattering and so for some reason
pleasantly tickling."

The influence of Nina, a bourgeois woman, undoubtedly reflected
elk and on the psychology of Ignat. Why else?
can explain Ignat's desire to become an
wife, teacher and his naive children's plan
become a master to give Nina the opportunity
the need to learn to become a doctor, and then to become infected
botok to live together and work in a party. But
similar plans and thoughts visited Ignat
rarely, in moments of oblivion, and then again in it
The proletarian-collectivist wakes up.

“Awakening Thought. Awakening Man
in a forgotten slave - this is what he can do -
turner Gudimov (illegal surname Ignat)
and this is what engineer Pasternak cannot do.
This is his strength and this is his creativity.
beautiful eternal creativity.”

Ignat is going through a difficult personal drama and...

emerges from it as the former Ignat, - a complete personality -
ness. '

He leaves “someone else’s house”, breaks ties
with a bourgeois woman, finds his home “in the naked
barn", in which a group of party workers
a workers' newspaper is published. He feels again
himself among his equals,” although he has such
feeling as if I had just suffered a trauma
I wish the disease. But the crisis is over. He again
feels the joy of awakened desires, feels
there is a “gravitation towards people”. He's back with his lover
bimogomatters of “awakening thought.” Black
the end of his life was over; should be followed by
give the next strip of dawn, after that"
noah silent night. Can be the author and 0
will tell her someday.

I. Pchelintsev.

And it was...

(from an old chronicle).

And it was in the year A.D. one thousand nine hundred
twenty-second, and fifth from the beginning of the Commune,
and a book called Mig, dependent-
name of a famous scribe and bookseller
Trzhebin in St. Petersburg, in the headquarters
printed photographs. And it was in it, in the book
A moment, about eighty pages long; a& poems—
according to their names, they number thirty; and the names of the gods
and goddesses, Egyptian, Greek, Roman, Christian

Christian, -Isis, Cypris, Aphrodite, Christian
Stos, Sawayuf, etc.—a dozen in total
and kings and queens—Cleopatra, Solomon, queen
Savskaya and others - no less in number; and husbands and
illustrious women from all nations and ages—
multitude; and there were just as many names of rivers,
countries, cities, mountains, kingdoms and states.

And the writer was a faithful and venerable husband -
ny Valery, much-famous from the famous

5

.

m

rivers Ch 6-7

meth

you

№1 (6)

CRITICISM AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.

137

family Bryusovyzh, in the glorious city of Moscow from
long lived.

And he, Valery Bryusov, became famous as a poet,
scientist, and magician, and one of the founders
holy teaching, under the name symbolism is known
nogo. And although many of the prophets and disciples
the teachings of this priestly office and even
the haircut was accepted, he, Valery, remained in the world
and the heavy cross of the sinfulness of the world upon oneself
nyal. Malicious rumors have been started among the people
there were even that this husband changed the honorable
dedicated to his teaching and with heretics and against God
The Bolsheviks entered the union, however,
all headphones book Mig resist firmly
maybe. For, having read this book, everyone, even

to the initiate, it will become clear that he has not forgotten the

nickname of the Word-Spirit, Word-Mystic and not to forget
could neither the wrath of God, nor the scourge of God, & also,
that he remembered about the temple, Mount Sinai, the psalms
And the rosary mentioned in his poems.

And to all those of little faith and in the depthsBine him, Va-
Leria, faith doubters, read at the meeting
nies and in friendly disputes, the following eti-
hee him:

No, not strings, no, not pipes,
Float my tune over the sea.
I'm quietly eating the shutters,
I offer my lips obediently

To the golden forgotten flute:
Rule the dark silence
Old-fashioned, ancient
An echo that is only dear to me.

And although the zealots of symbolism did not understand
Why did the honorable citizen Vale-
Riya quietly closed the shutters and remained in the dark
There is no doubt, however, that there will be any silence
it could not be that it was the echo of the old-fashioned and
the old one remained dear to this husband, but not those
demonic dances and songs that in those days
filled the sinful world.

And they also pointed out that to that extent jealousy
our repairman realized that even on. factory,
this gloomy symbol of the ungodly power of pain
Sheviks, for him in the morning the bell rang, although,
as far as we know, on. factories don't have bells, &
There were beeps.

And for those who were not convinced by this, in chorus chi-
hoists;

In the familiarity of horror
Over the heavenly abyss
Bow down piously.

And the usual horror really took hold
all those of little faith, and piously bowed

x

they are in front of the steadfastness of the famous poet, not
afraid of the temptations of the world,
Where the music of sorrow is devoid of harmonies,
Where only death is majestic, and life is
only bet,
And yet remained faithful to the old covenants.

And having believed, they read his verses en masse, and died
there was a lot of significance and mystery
noah strength. And no one was afraid of the darkness and the ps-
understandability of some verses, for they saw everything
hiding the light of faith behind the darkness of meaning. And a lot
there were such places, but 060bo heated debates allowed *
cost two quatrains.

And the first one was:

That in a happy dream this vekrik was given
, infused,
This moment where the sigh is narrowed to a groan, what?—
An ancient Persian, the tide left on the sand
possessed,
From the shallows, whose pearls no one collected
who.

And it wasn’t that there was any doubt that the moment was
Persian, although why shouldn't he be honest
Christian, & {0, where is this Persian left? And one more thing
Is it a Persian from the shallows or a pearl from the shallows? So what
What is a strand, and why is it stranded? Most of all, the controversy
youdifferent interpretations called: shallows and shallows. Some
they said: shallow, & others said: shallow; per-
you said: the word shoal comes from the word shoal, and
the second said: the word chalk comes from the word grind.
And when the last one pointed out that in their reading
there is no point, they objected that otherwise
there's no point. And others, reconciling them, declared,
that the meaning here is secret and that, in general, the meaning
no need. But they cannot reconcile those who are at war
It was possible and they insisted on their own in disputes. And how
As soon as they read the shallows, others respond:
shallow. Meli, meli, meli, meli...

This is where the proverb came from: shallow Emelya...

And another place was:

Above the sleep of hopes, that flocks of birds, soaring,
The years are circling, the cry of a hawk is angry.

But the days, all the days, soar without growing old—
Here is a kite, a dove, a little bustard, a siskin, an eagle.

And they worked a lot, argued and resolved:
Do hopes soar like birds' feathers? year
circling, flying, like flocks of birds; whether it's been a year or so
reaping flocks of birds; or, conversely, flocks of birds,
the years are circling; etc., & total questions about
these four verses numbered 33, & so
since this number is mystical, they decided to re-
sewing, which is a secret meaning here too.
138

a:

No. 1 (6)

And without understanding, behind the darkness of meaning they began to see
the light of faith, and were touched by the great learning of fellow-
repairman, and remembered how he was in this small
the book gave the names of gods, kings, mountains, rivers,
countries and states, and again they were touched.

And reading his poems, his fans merged
him in a mystical kiss, about which he
said:

And if our lips are poisoned by a kiss,
Although you sometimes try to contradict
read,

This is because once upon the walls of Vetilui
Two Assyrian soldiers were playing even and
odd.

Note. That must be why he
wrote poetry.

Wrote off and reported, & also
note, on reflection,
delivered.

S. Olenev.

Exhausting lethargy').

Throughout the revolution, until last year,
Some Russian writers remained silent. Gone somewhere
then she hid, renounced the greatest events
our days. She was silent, and only occasionally gave
voice - sometimes secretly angry, sometimes tearful
hostile. Secretly tearful, cowardly.

Did a “good minute”y with a bad game",
complained about the lack of freedom of the press,
opportunity to be printed. And it was like-
as if in this, only in this. All conversations
9 that in the “Danish kingdom” not everyone
It’s fortunate that old literature has not been silenced
chatted, did not hide at all, but was deeply worried
the greatest crisis, fell behind, remained in the past, -
all these conversations were related to the “revolutionary
tional phraseology". }

- Give only freedom of the press, the opportunity
publish, and...

And now, more than a year since this opportunity presented itself
delivered. What? Among hundreds and hundreds of books,
little books and little books thrown onto the market
old, familiar, sometimes famous in literature
rature names, will you find anything actionable?
truly talented, reaching the level ©
our days?

I'm not afraid of Evg's conclusion. Zamyatin, who
he does in his article: “I am afraid”: -i 00-
I am sure that Russian literature has only one thing:
future: her past.” (“House of Arts”, No. 1). Pre-
a warning voice from the other side of the literary
the barricade turned out to be a bitter prophecy:
prophecy of the last hour. Yes, old Russian

Russian literature is all in the past. She doesn't have
future.
Like everything in Russian life, literature

is now being built by a new, revolutionary class,

1) Fedor Sologub. Incense. Poetry. Publishing house
"Wandering Enthusiast" Petersburg. 1921.

Fedor Sologub. One Love. Poetry. in -stvo
"Moozoise." P. 1921.

we are strangling to replace the past. In the past
lies the deadly shadow of the “exhausting sluggish
sti"; it also lies on the author of the above line -
ki—Fedora Sologub.

Both books under review—“Incense” and “One
Love" was published in 1921, the last one was published
copyrighted as a manuscript, therefore say ©
she doesn't have to do much. Calculated, same rocks
zal, for a circle of friends, published out of love for
art. We will not encroach on the “great
va" by the author. Let us cite only one poem-

. tion, characterized by its worthlessness, showing

the extent to which a once-painful
good master.

Nightingale
Among the branches
Shoots arrows for a girlfriend,
And the stream
Between the stones
Ingives birth, gurgles, babbles.
By the stream
Nightingale
Listen, dear one.
- My life!
- Am I yours? —
Oh, love in early May!

You really need to experience the latter
stage of “exhausting lethargy” so that this
liberda to pass off as poetic creativity.
For whom is it not clear that it is one of those verses that
rye were specially manufactured at one time by “Sali-
ricon" for your mailbox.

If "Golko Love" is published, in limited edition
quantity, then “Incense” is obviously intended
chens for general use. Here too
love, but not only love. Near) with praise
smoking a cigar and dreaming about the island of Samoa, where
the poet “would compose poems about the fire of love, about
naked beauties" and "I would walk at home" completely
naked,” prayer:

=

+
a

No. 1 (6)

CRITICISM AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.

139

On a tedious and long journey,
Dragging through the marketplaces of the earth,
Become innocent even for a minute,
Be simple for a moment,
Even for a short moment to see God,
Even if you hear an angry speech,
Even just in passing at the doorstep
O Lord, lie down!

And then let it be obscured by dust
God's Holy Path

And purulently mocks reality
Fierce ‘crowd 1).

And then the “evil way of joy” is praised
logo of vice", a woman who is "like an onion,
not stretched too tight... belly and chest
will meet a friend,” and another—whose “husband
old and very busy, all the worries and labors" and

to whom “only the stepson sometimes breaks the heart”
amusing."

And all of this, of course, is “only mystical
circle."

There was a symbolist Fyodor Sologub, a good poet,
true, a bitter poet, a representative of that class
sa, to whom

Great hopelessness
The merciless light blows,

whose aphid

..5 there is no shrine in the world,
And there is no hope in the sky.

There was, but Fyodor Sologub remained, a mystic who
added with a good dose of poriorrhaphy and senility
heavenly infirmity.

And this is one of the best. Of course, from their point of view
vision.

These dying and dead have one consolation -
tion:

"And the dead we rule wisely."

This is the danger. In the power of the old, I am dying -
total bourgeois culture over part of the construction
lei of the future. !

This danger must be recognized, it must be addressed.
as soon as possiblereach. !
Semyon Rodov.

Fedor Sologub - Snake Charmer. Novel. P. Ed. "The Epoch" 1922, 296 pp.

The novel is below Sologubov’s usual strength, but
in the usual F. Sologub style: power and intoxication
Aaa, disgusting, ugly gris-

1) and this is with the motives of Gershenzon’s letters
In “Correspondence from Two Corners.” Kinship of Thought
complete.

masses of unspeakable meanness and vulgarity of people
Sky and somewhat mystical. And all these psycho-
logical patterns unfold against the background of ob-
social relations; personal characters
acquire a generalizing meaning; individual fi-
the Gurs appear almost symbolically. But read-
the body, contrary to appearances, does not believe in this
socio-psychological scheme, because the main
ny persons do not justify by their behavior
its social essence, & the conflict is not
nothing is allowed. External events do not contribute
clues, satisfactions, do not give complete
significant determining effect.

In the novel the manufacturer appears. upi-
tanned merry fellow and red tape: with serfdom
manners, although not without liberalism, its own
parent of the "snake's nest". On the other hand—
Vera, a clerk working on a porcelain fa-
briquet, beauty and cleverness, “sorcerer”
snake”, deciding to use persecution
owner for a good purpose - to lure him out of
factory dacha for the benefit of the workers. And she got
is aimed at its goal, and the owner who started ‘©
gross feudal ingratiation and sub-
kupa, cums ecstatic and selfless
falling in love.

Faith, which you so easily imagine to be
a cheerful and smart factory girl
who, throughout the novel, appears as if in
many different faces, which makes her image
completely unconvincing: then she is dry, according to
bookish, talks about surplus value
(Sologub... and added value), about: the fact that
the worker needs to rely only on himself, that
religion is a superstition that benefits the rich! it. n.,
then suddenly he goes for advice to some saint,
to the sectarian and in front of him develops his swimmers
Gorelov's seductions in the once fashionable style
decadent girl: “no, I won’t
beachsal in front of him and. to beg favors. How
queen, I will take everything, like a queen, like fate,
like death." And the same Vera is not alien to the thought of
some higher power that doomed her to
feat, and sometimes directly turns to God.

Some are much brighter and more truthful in the novel
cameo persons: brother of the manufacturer, self-
confident, calculating and predatory rentier Ba-
balls, engineer Shubnikov—schemer and betrayer
Tel, son of Gorelov—depraved to the end
by her position and the whole situation, ‘daughter
Basharova Elizaveta—eccentric, empty and
a girl spoiled by luxury and idleness.
However, these characters are taken so satisfactorily
it is so condensed that even here the reader can’t help but
can get rid of some doubt, only
no longer ideological, but “emotionally artistic”
feminine order.
140

BURN.

№1 (6)

Factory workers in the novel are completely
not given; individual figures are poorly outlined and
by the way.

The language style of the novel is uneven, + confusing -
confused, confused: then simplicity reaching
banality, then embellishment to the point of tasteless
pretentiousness.

Hence F. Sologub’s excursion to the region
the ideology of the factory proletarian can
be considered completely unsuccessful.

Claudia Lavrova.

Mikhail Gerasimov. Unquenchable power. Poems
1921. Moscow 1922. 111 pages. Ed.
writers "Forge".

In the book, this time published decently,
14 poems and poems. The book is quite’ bright
emphasizes the shift in the poet from the past to the future
to the worst, from the narrow plane of the cupola to the machine,
in which one can feel the beginning of “Unquenchable Power”.

“Unquenchable force” speaks for itself. This is
first of all, revolution. Taken from the revolution
everything that, in. after all, is the core
force driving towards victory. This is, first of all,
go--labor. The stages of the path to victory determined
The inextinguishability of power is the mystery of labor, sowing,
life-giving machine, point of departure—inextinguishable
power—revolution. On the paths it is crossed by
There are two forces - light and black. Means for
paler - philistinism, - philistine stupidity,
hunger. The result is black foam that floats
I'll rip to the surfacetional life. In na-
buildings of a poet who is confident in the future
first strength, black foam is an abscess, temporary
illness. And even here he is an optimist. And in "Cher-
noah foam,” and in “Hunger” a cheerful motive sounds.

But it doesn't go out
My nerves are on fire—

This is what he says in “Black Foam”.

Throw yourself over the spring blue
Eyelashes to the sun, who doesn’t bleed—
It won't be like wormwood
Bread salted with tears.

Thus concludes “Hunger.”

The bright, unquenchable force will win, so
ho, so that everyone penetrates into the mystery of labor and
sowing Old Gerasimov motif. -Drained labor-
The decisive blow of the city and the village sounds in “The Mystery”
quality of sowing".

City,
Clean the stone ears of the pipes
And listen to the mystery of sowing.

/

Back: listen to the village “sacrament of labor”.
Ideological premise: village, in dis-
dusty forces, does not know. organized labor
dovovyh blows. Find out!..

Complementary motives of both with:-
ly there are other poems and poems, which
“Steppe dissonances”, “Song of morning dawns”,
“Chiliga”, “Scarecrow”, etc. _

And since the poet believes in “Unquenchable’ power”, then,
It’s clear that he focuses on her most of all.

Sooner or later the whole world will meet something new
morning. The thought of a new morning in the world malita-
be—“Beloved” of the poet, love and will. Mud-
The future is not a dream. The poet sees him through the “night
a blast furnace with thousands of fiery hands.” Through "Sta-
nok", created by the plant and factory, through the machine
nok organizing the proletariat - to the machine all-
Lennoy This is the beginning of the generalization of a single world
of the process, (ore.

And from the consciousness that the poet himself is in the labor
the process is merged with the world machine—he sees it
there are few true revolutionaries who:

We are glad to die for our dear one,

Because:

Radio news from the sun.

The sun is a symbol of combustion, unquenchable force, ro-
Dimogo.

Many will say: the new bogeyman is cosmism from
wings An amendment must be made: proletarian
a poet cannot be just a household worker and simply
a cosmist, for he must contain everything. Ina-
Why is he not proletarian? |

And Gerasimov did well that he didn’t get stuck
in the “hole” sung by Poletaev. It's good that
passed the petty-bourgeois cosmos of Kazin from
"Working May". And he passed by the “funeral” of Kiri-
fishing

The future lies with socialism and technology. Elek-
Trinity is the primary source of prosperity and the planet,
but not all. Gerasimov in large generalizations,
giving the ball that conquered revolutions and miracles
desa technology, I realized that the coming culture
will grow out of technology, science will be the primary source
nickname for the organization of work, and therefore life.
He sings about electrification. "Electron", Elek-
touches are an element of his language, new in. technical
ke verse. And the structure of the new poems is complex
generalizations, collecting units into one whole.

In this regard, he will be related to Filipchenko,
but goes his own way, having his own
words, and images, and technology.

There is also a big shift in technology. Gerasimov
liberates verse from the laws it created -
nykh, & initially imposed by the theory of verse. Very good
simplifies, develops free verse, bringing
it to ordinary figurative speech, destroying the rhyme
mu. There are many such places in almost all poems.

=.
No. 1 (6)

CRITICISM AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.

But there is always bad things - mistakes. For modern
ny poetics according to Gorbunov “Every time on
this place" "this place" - powerlessness is clear and
clearly give a complete image of the work. Other
goe: overloaded, continuous lyricism; and then
mu one-sidedness of form, the absence of that, living
who created the revolution and carries within himself
"unquenchable force" Isn't that why they say:

“They have a lot of things they don’t understand.”

Encouraging the poet to delve deeper into the soil of
on the way to the “machine”, I want to say again:
give the center of the poem, make you feel
flesh and blood, face to face with the one you sing about,
finally create a majestic proletarian
epic combined with proletarian lyrics. Ska-
whoever says this will be the first of the first, a homer
of our era, the creator and sculptor of the model

unquenchable power.
P. Yarovoy.

Semyon Rodov. "Dashings of Zarnitz".
Proletkult publication. Petrograd.
34 pp.

There are 21 poems in the book. They accidentally
are selected and do not reveal the title of the book. Goal-
with the strong mood of Rodov’s poems, one can safely
call revolutionary spirit, sincere faith in the occupancy
implementation and consolidation of the revolution of law
thenrejoicing. This is said most powerfully in poetry
creation of the "Zarnits Dash".

Poetry.
1921

Our days are an angry cavalry
According to the burial mounds of centuries,

And, spurred on, chases like a whirlwind
Behind the distant light of beacons.

Not only from these lines, but also from others
poems we can conclude that the poet is not only
charged the poetic nature with intuition, but
He thinks dialectically.

“Burial mounds” of centuries—the path of history,
the path traveled by the struggle, through the graves, to the creation
nyu of the “furious cavalry” of these days. But who
will believe the courage of the “furious cavalry”,
if there are no beacons ahead? While “the peoples are awakening-
married”—let’s take Europe, Asia, Africa,
ku—it just seems that the path of the cavalry—only
"Fiery dash of lightning."

But the poet believes in the future. Hears:

And it hums with a singing tune

And it’s clear and simple to everyone.

We are the first to build for the future
A bridge thrown over the world.

And this is the future in the insight of the poet—little
rialista:

In the future
Tunnels,
Channels,
Ways...

And only after organizing earthly goods:
“So that everyone carries the universe in their heart.”

Rodov has his own way—songs about little ones
revolutionaries, about the life of workers. Life and literature
ka, civic motives, October. His interest
such topics as nationalization,
Lyaks in Kyiv and the Red Army. For the future
he looks through today, so
does not forget it in the ordinary revolutionary
sees a hero carrying a stone for laying a new
of the building. Sings least of all about the plant, according to
almost nothing about cupola furnaces, does not specialize
in labor processes. He is simpler than others, different
more figuratively and more than others has not been fully revealed,
is in the process of growing.

The form of Rodov also differs almost from
everyone. In the “new” way it’s old, in the old way it’s new –
rarely sophisticated with assonances, the rhyme is complete,
not always firm, but clear; Rodov thinks little
about sound, color, auditory, etc. mu-
arrows that are shouted about at crossroads, in
"stalls" and "poses" looking for new
combinations in the name of sonority, self-sufficient compo-
times. In this case it does well. Book
has one main drawback - small, withput-
is not random and does not give a complete whole. From
such a compilation of books should have been
speech.

P. Yarovoy.

Semyon Rodov. In Hurricane. Poems. Petrogray.
Proletkult publication. 1921 43 pp.

Just like in the book “Dashing the Zarnits”. Childbirth
puts forward the past and future “tomorrow! and yesterday" and
treads firmly on the ground of today. This one
imprint on all poems. Even by October
he approaches as simple as today, and in it
not rhetorical, simple, without drumbeat. Op
almost one of the proletarian poets of “Kuznitsa”
tries to ‘Introduce a plot into the poems, and into the setting
The novelty of the October fire introduces a living hero.

We are tormented by a dull foreboding,
Ilya got up in a hurry in the morning.
It turns out. In the morning fog
Confusion beats before him.

The poem contains life, setting, and outlines
action.
142

BURN; №1 (6)

“Inna” is like a fairy tale about the 70s that lived
before the revolution, which cannot live in the future.
The poet says that Inna is not Nalia, that

Ours do not pamper, do not pamper,
And if they are gentle, then not like that.
By the fire of the wind's freedom
We burn our fighting friends.

Yesterday in Inna, & we can say about it:
You are the swell of the departing night

We learn today through the poet:
”

.‹ We are a new red day.
A worker will never love
Dying shadow.

Correct: Rodov does not like “The Dying Shadow”
ideologically consistent, but formally it can-
to blame for some backwardness in form. B
“October” feels heavy most of all
the burden laid down by the old poets. This is from-
parts can be seen from the first given’ four-
stillness. The hard thing is to get out from under Push-
kina, don’t be crushed by futuro-imagini-
slami, etc., but get out of the old shell
necessary.

Pretty well done Inna.
The worker will read and understand the book.
And this speaks for the value of the book.

P. Yarovoy.

S. Obradovic. October. Poems. State
new publishing house. 1992 Moscow. 32 pp.

There are 15 poems in the book. A book has been published
decent on good paper.

Russia of the past—pre-revolutionary Russia
present—R. S.F.S.R., changes in Russia,
fire and life inside - Obradovic's baggage,
brought to the bookshelves.

In dThere are a lot of other books about the factory and the worker,
in October - just working Russia before and after
revolution.

The path of this Roesia is as follows:

Years on a lonely road
Milestones of monastery chapters,
Shouting wretchedly

She wandered around lamenting.
I struggled with a vague question

At the feet of the crucified Christ,
I wandered through the country roads,
Lost in the squares.

This is black-boned, working-class Rus'.

They knew the princely boyar
Braid, silver, silk.

This is boyar-noble Rus'. Historically
class contradictions are outlined. And therefore: you-
boron is one of the two, or

With a brigand flail the ravines,
The tax is a piece of chaff.

And because:

Not by a roundabout road"
She went straight towards the sun.

October came, as if inevitable and withstand-
I wanted Rus', despite the “ulcers”, typhus, cholera,
hunger."

And he became:

.

The heart of the International is the Kremlin,
The red outcome is Moscow.

Like the sea, the world never sleeps
Russia's ninth wave.

Why? The poet claims that the ninth wave
Even Yakut was overwhelmed and started talking about Marx,
Lenin and the commune. Chinese to the shoulders of the Urals,
looked slantingly. All over the world it sounds
about the work of radio stations." And therefore
believes that sultry, sleepy Africa will write the sign
mena, "So-Re".

This is our working May
New things are coming.

Skirmishers, seeders of new grain and elderly
nateli new factories, factories in Moscow, Petrograd
and many cities and villages. With the International
workers and working women are walking—from 1905 © “Dubi-
nushka to 1917 and into the future with international
cash through cities, steppes, through the mountains - to the sun
directly.

The ship of October is boldly steered by a keen helmsman

The old man was silent... Oh, how much power there was
In his eyes and in his vested hand!

Obradovic is consistent in form. Easy to

‘language, image, elementary in themes. Citizens

nickname, communist, everyday worker. True to October, but
does not indicate, does not predetermine the path of October in
tomorrow. His “radio news” is far from
"radio news" Gerasimov. His style is ordinary
within the framework of the laws of verse. Lags behind in technology
from technology, like many poets, have so far
collapsed in October of mechanical strength, victory
CRITICISM AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.

143

.

`rifle, countless army,but not under-
was still approaching October culture.

If Obradovic's poems are the beginning and necessary
wait for the continuation, and if there is a continuation
no change is bad. The reader has the right to demand
to create new paths in art. Like a day off
point—Obradovic’s poems are necessary and interesting
‚for the working reader and promise the best.

P. Yarovoy.

a

Poems by Theory Chulkova. (Ed. “For-
friend." M. 1922, p. 112)—poems “God-
natural", are suitable for reading to believers before

Polish church values, & Also for
consolation of retired princesses. In other cases

unsuitable for reading.
.\ S. E:

1

yy

b,
and OAEE, BT EA

Latsis-Sudrabe: “The Last Battle.”

Revolutionary chronicle in five acts,
seven paintings. Theater Library, "Revo-
lutionary Scenography" No. 9. Ed. mug dra-
Maturgs "Revolutionary Scenography". vi
1921 Price 10,000 rub.

In “Necessary Instruction” the author explains;
that... “the real revolutionary chronicle is
poses as an experience to give in dramatic
form of a propaganda item for the present mo-
ment"; “The author set out to clearly show
let the masses know what difficulties they go through
decided to go through the Soviet government in order to “re-
to be in trouble,” and finally, “the author does not deduce here
where people, heroes. If they do work,
about how representatives of one party or another
and class. Mass actions, communication with the audience
telami, that’s what was meant.”

We fully recognize every experience in the proletarian
dramaturgy, limiting itself at first to
at least a revolutionary chronicle (of events)
our days. In this sense, what a valuable mathematics
rial, subsequently, will be used prole-
Tara playwrights to create authentically
artistic dramatic works are very
_ a lot.

G. As a striking example, in this regard, we can
| please point to the book that just came out
Comrade D. Sverchkova “At the dawn of the revolution.” Book
° amazes and infects the reader with abundance and
|: richness, along with an accurate presentation of the historical
— ric facts, brightly artistic 0b-
at times.
“The Last Battle” ‘t. Latsis “amazes” the
host of “style” and protocol imagepressure
y; Phenomena interpreted in the chronicle. That's what I want
wrote... >

“Minutes No. 1 of the meeting of anarchists under
fields in September 1919 in the city of Moscow" (Day-
effect of the first). Y

“Minutes No. 2 of the meeting of the White Guard
organizations." (Act two).

“Minutes No. 3 of the meeting of the responsible parties
ty and soviet workers indoors

M.K. in Leontievsky rivers (Action
third).
“Minutes No. 4 of the factory committee meeting.”

(Act four),

“Minutes No. 5 of the ceremonial meeting
representatives of M.K.R.K.P., Council of People's Commissars,
Economic Council, etc.” (Act five)...

As you can see, every part of the chronicle. separates
from the previous decent “distance”.

If the author says that “the present given by him
roar the chronicle represents a propaganda piece
for the present moment,” then he is deeply mistaken
afraid. Firstly, to agitate with such language
com, which we find in the chronicle of Latsis, you can
I am only in the first years - in an acute military period
the period of our revolution; the present moment is
there are other ways and methods of propaganda (although
Tsy and in dramatic form); secondly, the phrase
that “the author set out to clearly show
the masses, what difficulties they had to go through
goes to Soviet power to win" again
still doesn’t say anything, because, as we have already indicated,
Zali, in “The Last Battle” are “visually” shown
protocols, and from the latter it’s unlikely that anything
These Mayes will learn a visual lesson. After all, these masses
experienced all this in reality much more deeply, more widely
and more tragic than Comrade managed to portray it.
Latsis on paper...

Thirdly, the author is right that he is in his
nik- “does not bring out individuals, heroes, but
All his characters speak only
in one language... the author.

To capture the era we are living through
artistically, an artist's brush is needed,
the sculptor's chisel, the pen of the master of words—drama—
turg, writer, poet.

Comrade Latsis is only a protocol keeper, at best
case - feuilletonist. In his "Last Stand" there is no
not a single artistic image, although the author
set out to use a “visual” method in a “dramatic”
tic form" etc. d.it. etc., but from this
absoUnfortunately nothing came of it.

Finally, the dramatic form of the works
Comrade Latsis - actually there is no drama there -
chesical form. Maybe several days in a row
look into the empty frame of the dressing table and not see
of your face. So it is in the works of Comrade Latsis.

To characterize Op. We will bring Comrade Latsis
some excerpts like... “We are used to
always tell the people the whole truth, as if
144

Grief

sometimes she was bitter... This bitter
I will tell you the truth now, in the hope that
you will find the means and the courage to fix it
the difficult situation created. Danger
threatens from two sides: from Denikin,
from the south and from the Yudenich side—near St. Petersburg"—
This is how Chairman Mo-
Skovsky Council" before an emergency meeting
meeting of the Moscow Trade Unions, autumn 1919,
due to the advance of the white armies.

Similar, really; revolutionary speech
mi, the whole “play” of comrade is replete. Latsis.

But, the further into the forest, the more firewood,
and before us is an example of how not to
visually `depict such a great world
historical event such as the proclamation of the Euro-
Pei Socialist Federative Council
Republic: Tov. Latsis remains here too
Versn his ability as a protocolist-feuilleto-
nista,.

A ceremonial meeting of representatives is underway
R.K.P., Council of People's Commissars, Council of National Economy and other representatives
becoming proletarian power, on the occasion of holidays.
20th anniversary Sov. Russia. (Action five-
that).

Chairman: Chairman of the Moscow Co-
iiteta Volodin asks to speak for an extraordinary
no statement. Please.

Volodin. To you already comrade. chairman of the meeting
niya reported on the formation of the European Social.
Fed. Soviet Republics. Moscow Komi-
tet on this occasion arranges a grandiose party
a monster that we are asked to join.

Voices: Let's go, let's go.

Volodin: Districts are already approaching Red
area, so I ask you to immediately.

Chairman: In any case, we
it is necessary now to interrupt the meeting and
head to Red Square to get
welcomed the first Revolutionary Council of Europeo-
Pei Socialist Federative Council
skaya Republic.

Does anyone object?

Voices: Nobody, nobody.

Chairman: Banners forward! (Volodin and
those standing on stage take banners and go down

from the stage to the auditorium and the middle aisle"

they are followed by or-
playing Inter-
with

heading towards the exit;
kester (must be an orchestra!),
national, followed by the rest of the public,
stage, and then the entire auditorium").
And that’s all?! - he will ask in bewilderment
reader or viewer. On the occasion of the victory of the European
Pei proletariat, presiding
finds it possible to interrupt “60 anyway”
meeting, but... as if still doubting,
asks the meeting if “anyone objects!!”

Hardly the last fight of the proletariat! © bourgeois
Asia is the first to understand as it has become for him
wanting to “visually show” Comrade. Latsis.

Therefore, it seems to us, “The Last Battle” by Comrade.
Latsis is a bad thing and there was no point in making her
give.

Scarificalnor.

Yu. N. Drazen. Music and revolution (lecture)
tions 0b historical development of music, read.
in Krasnoarm. Univers. in 1921). Mogilev.
110 pp.

The author of the lectures was one of the first (first to follow)
blows to count comrade. Kushner) raises the question of
of great importance: 06 historical-materialistic
com analysis of musical phenomena and forms. B
a number of chapters (“production techniques and music”,
“character of Russian folk song”, “Meister-
Singers", "romanticism in music", "class cha-
ruckler of the work of individual composers") he
tries to use historical examples to give such
analysis. However, its successful analysis can be

know only to the extent that it concerns.

the original, primitive forms of music (from
savages, among the ancient Greeks); Comrade Dreyzech is here
quite rightly sets the hang"
the ability of early perception from the properties and applications
tools, & these properties are derived from
technology and economic forms of public
being. But as soon as he passes, at least
to the music of the 19th century, touching on Beethoven,
Mendelssohn and others, now begins t1o-
It's not about the forms of music as such, &
about the so-called“content”, i.e. about the moment
extra-musical, general ideological moment
It is absolutely clear, of course, that the mood and
emotions of the rich bourgeois Mendelssohn and semi-
proletarian Beethoven, are different and even pro-
are opposite. But that's not what music theory is about.
is engaged; she is interested in techniques, combinations,
design methods, musical materials
ly. Here is a long Marxist analysis of all such
precisely phenomena in music would really be
important and serious task (for example, the problem
sonata forms, problem of metrhythm, techniques
harmonization, etc.). Unfortunately they don't
only not razremen, but not even delivered
author of the lectures. No, that's why it's no surprise
There's nothing wrong with talking about music at the end of the book.
future prospects, he cannot give anything,
in addition to hackneyed stereotyped ideas about boo-
current collective choirs and orchestras. Question
about the revolution in music, the question of radical

` reconstruction of the entire music building bourgeois®

Asia for Comrade It’s as if Drazen doesn’t exist
exists. _®

,
||

#

in == -
B -No. 1 (6)

CRITICISM AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.

145

Meanwhile, currently young but
The makers are already beginning this restructuring. From mu-
languages of choirs and orchestras. i.e., from music used
artificial instruments, from music beyond life
standing for the music of labor and machines, for the music
abbots, to the music of life itself—this is their path.
Understand this process as a collective process
ization of society and its cultural tools (in
including music) and that means to a large extent
degree find the key to marxistek mesozi
in the field of music theory
E.A.

Young Tvardiya, monthly magazine of Ts.K.
R.K.P.iC. K.R. K.S. M. No. 1-—2., April—
May 1922, p. 264.

Nowadays, among numerous nations
published magazines and magazine-like ones, rarely
meet an interesting and strictly seasoned
organ Most have no line of their own,
no program. Random selection of materials,
random composition of employees, whose circle
very limited, and which today are in the journal
on the Glavpolitirosvet street, tomorrow in pale pink
vom or foggy yellow almanac in one or
different proportionii, in one or another combination.

All the more necessary to welcome the new journal
cash in which the liveliness of the content is successful
combined with the certainty of communist
sky consciousness. Of course there are more or less
minor defects, often purely technical
ties, but they can be eliminated and do not interfere with the general
favorable impression. "Young Gwal-

Sdiyakh is a valuable magazine not only for young people,

but also for every conscious worker, for
any communist.

We don't have the opportunity to go into detail
on individual works and steels, but from
the contents of the magazine below, each
can make sure what kind of information he represents
Teres.

In No. 1-2 of “Young Guard” there are:
stories by I. Nizovoy, Novikov - Priboy, I.
Zhukova; poems and verses—A. Bezymensky, S. Ma-
Lashkin, Semyon Rodov, S. Obradovich, Mikh.
Gerasimova, M. Dikova, A, arova; steels:
I. -Leposhinsky - “Proletarian class
holiday" and "From the protocols of free-discus. club
ba”, I. Vardina—“Political parties after
October”, V. Adoratokogo—“On the question of the possibility of
the emergence of the communist manifesto" (dep.
social science), 4. Kolontai—“Letters to

And working youth (department “life issues”)

V. Fritsche—“The social significance of art, (department,
“issues of art”) B. Zavadoveky—“Animal
and plant" (department "Natural Sciences"); S. Svenchan-

Gori No. 1 (6).

Sky - “Liberated Labor”, V. Vishneva -
“Flight without a motor” (department “Achievements of Labor,
science and technology"), N.K. Krupskaya—"How to
read a book" and "Circle activities", E. Kher-
sonekoy—“On oratory” (department “What
read and what to learn”), A. Sepoklitsky—“Me-
National Review"; departments of satire and humor
ra, sports, criticism and bibliography.

"To the voice of the international red youth
on the pages of the “Young People” of Germany,
France and Italy, fighting for the cause of commu-
nism,” states the editorial, “pri-
our magazine, comrade-in-arms and comrade are also united
riches in struggle and future victory.”

We welcome a new ally in the fight for
proletarian culture and its future victory.

I'm ryNOV

“Create” is a magazine of Moscow flyover studios.
cult nos. 3 and 4.

On the 3rd book the magazine is quite defined
poured in order to have a judgment about him. Kah and usual
but in magazines of this type, the most richly _
the poetic part is presented.
The poems of Kirillov and Aleksandr stand out here.
Sandrovsky. Kirillov writes a poem in
the topic is large and modern, ‘but he writes in a
in a manner of good tone, weighty, and slow
in iambic penta-six feet. And I must say
that these means did not affect the poet, unsuitable
to express the most intense pathos
the collective soul of a self-realized fly-by
riata,. :

Who will say “here is mine” and impudently
torknet
her overall music is her effort sound,
Here from the creators in curses and in-
\ storge
I felt a living ligature from miraculous hands...

The poet's somewhat old-fashioned language, unusual
Nowadays, it’s a reference to the speech of the ancient Slavs.
nisms, this habitual convention of solemn
odes, does not confuse or offend. our
a modernized consciousness is already sufficient and
the poet successfully combines with the words of the present
his everyday language. | ,

We also have to point out an offensive oversight:
from the accepted correct metric channel
one annoyingly pops up, unjustifiably
designed line, moreover, generally constructed
pronounced ponderously and awkwardly:

..Created by whom, created when.

In Alexandrovsky’s poem “March”
new orderliness for the poet in development

19
146

BURN.

No. 1 (6)

themes and a sweeping turn from the foggy blur-
chat symbolism to specific images. 2

From Gerasimov, the poem was taken from a completely un-
corresponding to his poetic power, wretched
in their deliberate embellishments; some kind of vinaigrette
inconsistent images: with black pins,
the current that pokes the blinded moon, the wind
peels nest warts; someone lathered up
moonlight, rushing without a road, unknown
where; a lifeless shell crunches under your hooves
long-drunk happiness, & the rider "sadness
chilled with a frown,” then suddenly, for no reason
delight flows and invites the stars to spraychickpeas
in his face with golden tassels of hops.

Obradovic's poems are as usual for him as
in a narrative style according to promise
in conveying experiences; with a touch of lyrical
sadness and an obligatory motive for moderate body-
grow in conclusion. E

If we exclude the poems of the long-established
and enough of the already famous Nechaev! and Prasku-
Nina, the rest, except for those already noted only

poems by studio members. It seems that poems are now...

them studio listeners, have only just developed
showing their Poetic face, should not have
would be placed so randomly and scatteredly; better
it would be ‹ to give one or two poets, but
left in a greater number of poems that
would give the opportunity to more fully reveal the character
everyone's talent. According to certain styles
wishes - for those who do not have these authors
knows, - they still remain unknown, or
a false ‘provision’ is obtained about them; for
for those who know them, there is no possibility
track the success ‘and make any general
conclusions.

The fiction department in this issue is known
much weaker than the poetic one. Stop
pay attention only to the skit “The Lord is Away”
M. Volkova and “Spring Day” by Borovsky. U
Volkova in the form of a theatrical popular print is given me-
Schansky idea of God, brought to
absurd. The reproach can only be made because
unnecessary roughness in some places and
tightness in the second picture, in the drinking scene
with Allah. - “Spring Day”, what a note from
notebook; such is her interest; although
the author is trying to finish this note
literary, but the story, of course, will turn out
Still, it couldn’t—the material was insufficient.

‚ The picture “From the Past” by Pletnev is not at all
a success: a sentimental lesson.

Kirillov, in his attempt to write a communi-
nistic utopia was unable to emerge
from the circle of concepts of his time: coercive
hard work, familiar slogans, too familiar
basic ideas about success

technique, naive assumption 0b general non- $ ‘

darkened by fun, etc.; saved and.

stateorganization—advice’—only ^

on a worldwide scale; there are national {

new republics. Only one thought left -

pours attention like news, thoughts about a departure
divisions of production centers, cities; from
populated areas, and it seems that it is already generally accepted
new assumption about the triumph of the aesthetic
began in the entire external structure of life
nor, The banality and prosaism of the presentation of the usu-
ruin the impression of boredom. Magazine steels
leave an unsatisfactory and

confused. Stalia Arvalova—another decla” 49
walkie-talkie © mass theatrical creativity without -

any specific and practical instructions - _
ny.

Kozyrev’s article is another one, common to Perelitsov-_
which has been boring for a long time and was unhappily delivered -
a big question about “content” and “form”.

I would also like in the theoretical part of the journal
la sees the participation of the studio members themselves; need what- =

If only the magazine would be a reflection of them." 1
experience and benefits c. dy studio ra-
both.

In this regard, it is indicative and
interesting review section. Just so recently
literary helpless studios
tsy here, in evaluating the works of their comrades
riches, are already showing great literary
taste and sensitivity and display a strict ideal
logical consistency. Reviews are nuts
lively and skillfully. . |

There are rough edges and typos, but here
the editor's fault than the author's; e.g. in a review
about the collection “Soldering Iron” is completely unexpected
is the final greeting and bed
the desire for further success, done seriously,
although the reader, tuned to all previous
general presentation, I am inclined to regard the collection
completely negative. RI

An editorial oversight turns out to be 0060-
of the report on the work of the Central Literature
rature studio. Many comments from management

of interviewees and interview participants are non- |

justified and unconvincing in this form,
how they are transmitted, and in addition to those
measures that are given. There are actual _
errors made by the report writer.

It seems that inaccuracies are inevitable when co-
providing a summary of the meetings on tI'm inconvenient
new plan that has been adopted. Either it's necessary

give a detailed protocol of each Saturday- |

studio, which is hardly possible, or somehow-'

be brought together ‘(data from individual meetings in -

one general schematic report on the work ‚©tu-

diy for the year as a whole. a

AE AND I

{

I
M
{

|
|

%7

No. 1 (6)

CRITICISM AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.

147

It should be noted the external shortcomings of the journal
nala: a lot of sadness; very poorly made
portraits of proletarian ‘poets of anniversaries’; next
It would be possible to change the magazine cover design.

The title of the magazine is unfortunate: obsessively-ten-
Dentious and sounds bad; it would be better to exist
telny used for the name.

Department headings are contrived, pretentious and
produce some kind of frivolous impression.
I would like more modesty and efficiency in
these external studio magazine accessories.

Claudia Lavrova.

"The dawn of the beholder." Journal of the Proletarian Section
of writers at the All-Ukrainian Literary
Nominal Committee of the Glavpolitirosvet. 1922 Khar-
Cove, No. 1.

The collection bears the stamp of ideological
vagueness. All the material placed in it
rial is not, apparently, the result of
achievements of the ‘integral’ creative team,
welded together by an internal ideological unity,
& is connected in the collection mechanically, randomly.

I'll start with poetry.

Next to the timnas of victory and the strength of iron
perseverance and will of the team: “we are the seeds of new
strength”, “the joy of victory was revealed to the world” (E. Cher-
Nyavsky) “we are fiery factories, basements
dark formidable platoon" (R. Eideman) individual
leaf note of helplessness:

“I went out sick in public
And he wandered among them like a sheep" (9. Khazin)

and acceptance of the revolution ready,
Lanna:

made by someone

“October healed my wounds
My strength is in the leaves of the head” (9. Khazin).

Next to the embossed proletarian
worldview coexists with the worldview of non-
clear, alien to the proletariat: - .

“Let the lamp of bright truth from heaven,
Let the candle of pity light a candle in you.”

The best, most artistically organized
The following poems must be recognized as bathtubs:
nia: “Mill”—Radugina——quite successful
rhythm of the labor process. "We're as motionless as
huge"—E. Tarshis, transfer of factory
labor processes to the “height”, where the “sun is medical
lazily ends his day, full of labor,”
where “the clouds are chattering and pouring”; poem. "Beyond the Boundaries"
winter" (M. Khvilovy)—lyrics of an abandoned

quiet fields of the factory: “From an autumn notebook”—
lyrics of rural autumn. Nice translation from
Ukrainian M. Khvilovoy “Snow”—V. Sauseurs.

It should be noted that free-style exercises
home P. Ryzhov (Excerpt from the poem “Fairy Tale”).

In the prose department, attention is immediately drawn to
writes the story “The First Swallow”. Action time
11-12 years old. Contents of the story: inevitable
drama experienced by every conscious pro-
letharium - drama! break ‘to the old traditions’
tional way of life of the petty-bourgeois working class; families,
heavy torment of renunciation of the past, slowly
the steady but steady growth of the proletarian-collective
tivistic consciousness. V.

Sergei Zorin and Leonid express their
stages of this growth. Leonid, just recently ho-
went to church, was touched and cried
from the speeches of the missionaries, accepts the “new faith”
slowly; every step forward accompanies him -
tormented by doubts, anxieties, and regrets. Him
there is still a lot to understand, a lot to learn,
denial of oneself, but the ability to live, to know
yourself and others, and life itself.

Zorin has all this in the past. He was sitting
in prison. He is seasoned and is no longer afraid of anything.
what suffering. He believes in himself, he knows what
wants. Everything is clear to him. He says between
among other things, to Leonid: “Wait. You ask. We
we shout, we call, we lead, maybe we have fun
stacking; then let's go to prison and all in the name
what. In the name of class. We suffer for him.
We pay for it with our lives. Not at all. We are because
We do this because we want the best. We want. not
only for yourself individually, but also for the class,
from which they came” and further:

“I do not deny that we are still small in number,
but the worst thing is if we only imagine that
we create for his sake—for the sake of the numerous class,
but he is silent, with difficulty perceiving clear words
us ideas that can give birth to weakness in us,
whine"yeah"...

Successful: the image of the young worker Stremov from
category of weak, weak-willed. Stremov is a conscious
but suppressed the craving for the truth accepted
Zorin and ‘Leonid, for fear of suffering, not
escaped on her long martyrdom.

The vividly written story captures the depths of
no content. Every conscious
she should be especially close to Tarius and
clear..r

From the short story by M. Maisky “Matri-
tsy" breathes the peculiar lyricism of typographic
labor.

In the sketch “Physiology”—V. Strelnikova, -
one can feel an intelligent aestheticism, a refined
shape; delicate patterns of sliding moods
enies, light translucent tones do not justify

10*
E

}

’ flowers—red,

148

OR. NOT

No. 1 (6)

they create such an everyday modern theme as
marriage of a communist to a bourgeois muslin ba-
riiiiine. \

“Our Wounds”—a short, dynamic pano-
fight frame. The artistry of the story, a lot of
reeks of journalistic blots.

Dramatic sketch “Slu-sha-a-ay” by P. Ry-
Zhova is unsuccessful. The delirious ecstasy of prisoners
is too rhetorical and causes bewilderment
incomprehensible symbolism. `

The articles section is quite satisfactory.

The articles by A, Leites are informative and lively,
“Dostoevsky in the light of the revolution” and “Panli-
rhism in proletarian poetry." ‘Third article
“On young Jewish poetry”—L. Balter.

In general, the collection makes a gratifying impression.
sculpture and has every right to claim
noble mass proletarian reader.

E. I. Pchelintsev.

"Life". Literary and artistic
scientifically popular. magazine. No. 1. M. 1922,
224 pages |

Literary, artistic, etc. magazine
"Life" is an example of one
one of those misunderstandings that for some reason
Nowadays they are called almanacs, a collection of
nicknames and even magazines. Like a toy
clowns made from a wide variety of rags
yellow, white, black and
etc.—they are made from the most sophisticated materials
contradictory sentiments—from the White Guard to
communist; like them - helpless; and
just as funny. -

In this case there is a misunderstandingespecially before
It’s sad that the idea seems to be Soviet; especially
It’s absolutely ridiculous that out of three editors, one
collective and two individual—two
the latter seem to be communists, nothing, obviously
but they don’t understand the editing business. Before-
it is enough to point out that next to Comrade Lunacharsky—
Iv. Novikov, in the Adalis community—t. Shaft. By-
lyansky

This misunderstanding is dangerous because it is not
personally, Because, obviously, the well-known part
our comrades ‘the line between
friend and foe, between the worker and his enemy.
As if in literature we do not see the same two
irreconcilable camps, as in politics, as
and in (the economy; it seems worth putting a
title: “Literary-artistic and na-
popular scientific" so that in the same or-
tane, side by side, the idealists flew by
tariala and representatives of bourgeois culture.

And look what comes out of this. In re-
from the editors, the latter states: “world

war, turbulent years of the Great Revolution, devastation
and general impoverishment greatly reduced the level
our cultural life..."

Ours? Whose - is this ours? - allow orphans
sit, Can you be more clear? "We, if possible,
Let's open the pages of the magazine to all serious and
life trends both in science and so; and in art
"... If possible... everyone...—whose language it is,

Are they really communists? Is it really the story of Iv.

Novikova about the landowner's daughter and her fiance,
White Guard cadet, seasoned with sweet
sour pacifism in... the civil war
Isn’t this the flow of life? Or maybe
mediocre story by V. Yazvitsky (by the way: one-
one of the editors) = At the ferry" - this is the current
serious? Or maybe Adalis?

Of course it's nonsense. And no separate “ble-
disgraceful" and "famous" names will not cover up the degrading
qualities of the magazine as a whole.

In addition; that the magazine is wretched and ridiculous, it
is also harmful to a certain extent, because
© with the look of a benevolent “specialist” standing
on the Soviet platform" carries out ideas and
thoughts that are directly opposed to the interests of the re-
revolution.

For him, you see, “Bulletin of Literature”whose anti-Soviet face is enough
decided, “is published sincerely
blowing away all true lovers with his appearance
Russian literature”, etc.

Is it necessary to add after this that the library
the graphics department is completely colorless, old
trying to serve “both ours and yours”?

You involuntarily recall the words of one of the co-
magazine workers: “smells like a tart smell
philistinism."

The more intrusive is the question: what does it have to do with you, then-
comrades, communist brothers?

U".

Ovitok, No. 1, literary publishing house
mug “Nikitin Subbotniks”, M., 1920.
page 180.

The center of gravity of the new edition, of course, is
historical-literary and bibliographical
in fact. Unequal in ‘quality and interest’
terial, nevertheless, in general, is higher than ‘much, pr-
what's on the book market now. For this they say
b. m., the names of the authors, but - alas! - the same names
predetermine the old subjectively - psychologically -
ical approach to the history and theory of creativity.
All articles are marked with this, especially articles by S.
Shuvalova—“On the poetics of N. A. Nekrasov.” Time
taking the comparisons used by Nekrasov,
he approaches them purely mechanically, statistically
chesically, and therefore his claims are unconvincing.

I

6 ka ali

TI UVE

A
a

<

No. 1 (6)

CRITICISM AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.

149

For the method used by S. Shuvalov can
can complete its task only when
all creativity is taken as a whole; snatching
individual elements, for example, comparisons from
of the general text, it is clear that he cannot restore
new their emotional actions, in connection
with other elements of poetic speech. !

We cannot agree with some of the
special provisions, on the basis of which S.
Shuvalov builds his with steel. Separating the comparisons
phenomena into two types: 1, when the author comes from
main subject to minor, and 2,
when the author goes back - from secondary to
basic (basic, in the terminology of S. Shu-
Valova, called the subject that the author
compares © with others, and with secondary ones is the one
< which are compared to m S. Shu-
Valov states:

“Type 1 ‘indicates that the poet is pre-emphatically, at the beginning of the creative process,
selects a specific subject for poetry
processing (“main”) and then looks for another
some objects and images that would help
increase its brightness or emotionality.

Type 2, on the contrary, talks about “what happens
the images that suddenly turned up lead the author
to the subject, which becomes the main one...
Therefore, in one case, a significant role
In the process of creativity, the intellectual
moment, whereas in the 2nd case this is the last
relegated to the background or completely
obscured by elements of fantasy and related
there are feelings with her.” This statement is too much
simplified and too subjective, and done on

`em basics though. would be a cautious conclusion,

that “in Nekrasov’s work there is direct
expression of feelings and moods is inferior to non-
rarely known rationality and far-fetchedness",
hardly convincing.

Provides very interesting factual material
article by N. Brodoky—“Creative history of the birth”
mana “Demons” (based on unpublished materials).

As for artistic and literary
material, then with the exception of the story, A. Yako-
to the left - “The Man”, yes, perhaps, the story of A. Na-
<imovich—“Cherubimskaya”, for which the regent co-
Bora gave out the ‘waltz from the opera “Fra Diavola”,
the rest is of no interest.
From the thick fog of mysticism one can distinguish
some interesting lines in Kl.'s poems. Love-
rov.

The story of V. Veshnev, far-fetched, & in non-
which positions are completely unnatural
nykh, based on a running joke. October
days in Moscow, which the author tries to
“in the story both psychologically and actually
are incorrect. The main force that led to victory

‘tours,

The Moscow proletariat in October in no way
case there was no escaped © front& deserter;
this is how a person standing on the side can write
from the October events, having not survived them,
“Hysterical people (emphasis added throughout) crying weapons
diya” is the author’s stupid fantasy, and in every way
In any case, victory did not hang over the city of "ra--
blissful, bright silence." No silence
there wasn’t—on the contrary, thenYes, it’s just arrived
difficult, hectic work. There was a huge feeling
responsibility, the victims said, and
There was no time for mystical “bright silence”. *
A quarrel, officer, is unnatural; with a soldier, not-
a natural scene with a girl, etc., etc. d.
A fictional and useless story.
It must be admitted that “Scroll” is not for anyone
in general is not needed, although he wants to please
ours and yours.
Come on, citizens, let's be honest - or beautiful -
new, or white. Otherwise, no. this and that.

Fidelio.

"Creativity", a magazine of communist culture
No. 7, April-June 1921, ed. Yes
Bureau of the Ts.K.R.K. TsP. Chit, 160 op.

The magazine "Creativity" set itself two cereals
goals: firstly, the fight against bourgeois culture
tour and petty-bourgeois lack of culture; and secondly,
identifying methods and ways of new, communication
chesky culture. Conceived and borne in
conditions of the Far Eastern Buffer Republic,
The magazine has the most valuable quality, lacking
to a large extent with us: the bright class
owl revolutionism. This is really a fight
howling organ, fighting, repelling it and conquering
howling. The second feature of the magazine is its independence
the power of opinion, the absence in it of that scrupulous
authoritarian attitude towards recognized opinions
and heroes, which leaves the stamp of some
then loyalty to many of our councils -
Chinese publications.

The seventh issue of “Creativity”, in addition to the rich
bibliographic and information (correspondence)
Pondezia and chronicles from Soviet Russia, and
China, from Japan, etc.) material containing
lives within himself a highly qualified artist
natural department (poems by Comrade Tretyakov, Ale-
va, Neznamova and others, stories), departments “For
culture", "Towards the culture of the East", "Historical
ski documents”, etc.

The center of gravity in this issue are,
undoubtedly, the article by Comrade. Alien about the letter from Ts.
K. Party about Proletkults and his article about
Mayakovsky. t:

Sharply objecting to Ts.K. and pointing out the wrong:
the correctness of the position he took at that time, comrade.

150

PORN:

No. 1 (6)

Aliens at the same time insists on the indigenous
revolutionizing all activities of the Pro-
letcults.In another article dedicated to the
Bor "Mysteries-Buff" (play by Mayakovsky), he
absolutely definitely speaks out for fu-
tourism, kah for the only movement, really
meeting the tasks of October.

Comrade A stranger writes: “Futurism is not art
life... He is life.” And further: “This is the theory of those
who wants the program maximum yesterday—
today it was already becoming a minimum.” „

This is precisely the point of view that the editors stand on.
Creativity magazine; in a note dedicated to
teroic struggle of Moscow cultural no-
vators, the editors write: “The era of artifice”
has passed, we are entering a new era, the era of creativity
renunciation of life itself... We welcome our
friends in Nalekaya Moscow... Believing in creative
the power of the working class, this best art
zhernik of the era and the only pointer there is,,
We also believe in the inevitability of victory.”

I think that now, when the new economy
cultural policy forced proletarian culture to sharpen
their weapons, here in the Proletkult magazine
nale, we can warmly wish our comrades
from “Creativity” the best successes. in that big one
business, which they are in the distant solitude of mu-
perform fervently, standing guard over the revolutionary
tion proletarian culture. But along with
so they need to expand their range,
for the glorification of ‘futurism, in oblivion:
other new and very interesting forms of art
properties of the currently emerging ones, the elements of which,

will undoubtedly be included in proletarian art.

may serve “Creativity” in the future
bad 'service. More attention to purely pro-
lethargic creativity, which stubbornly goes towards
to your new one. in"

po 2

F. Koriunov. Song about the destruction of Kyiv Mo-
skva-1922. |

Following Yesenensky-Pugachev, in which
Instead of a historical person, the company's important figures are given.
new imagistic poems, do not slow down
appear as books with historical titles -
mi in an even more imperfect form. Here's one
of which: “Song of the Destruction of Kyiv”, presented
wondering with tears and sighs where the author is
mourns in good faith that:

“Slave Rus' will not rise
Will not straighten the neck under the whipyu...

In the "Song of the Destruction of Kyiv" historical
there is nothing except a reminder of the yard
Prince Stolny, and several imitators
lamentations in the style of folk poetry and Kol-
Tsov's songs. 1

I was already crying, bursting into tears,
She screamed loudly like a lie..."

I melt and hear—:

"Don't sing mower,
About the wide steppe."
; ‚_ Mac.

League AI

Life of Proletkult.

®

—_—_—_—_

Moscow Gubproletkult.

Since the emergence of the Moscow pro-
lotkult (1918) the work was carried out by him primarily
significantly in breadth. ® May 1919 there was a price
central drama studio and 11th district.

Since May 1919, attention has been paid to the
quality, at the expense of quantity, resulting in
the number of district studios was reduced.

From August 9 of the same year, the central dra-
math studio went to the eastern front
with the plays “Marriage”, “Game of Interests”, yes-
there are also concerts. Two propaganda groups worked
on the southern front with the repertoire “Death on-
hope" and "Red Truth".

During the Polish offensive in 1920, in all
agitation was staged in working-class areas of Moscow
national play "Pai-Buyan".

Upon returning from the eastern front to Mo-
squaw of the 1st Central Drama Studio
the plays “Blizzard” and “Neve-
unlikely, but possible." In the summer of 1920 the studio
traveled around Siberia with the same repertoire.

In October 1920, during the Moscow fly-by
another theater studio opened in the cult,
working in the plane of theatrical synthesis,
uniting word, movement and music, rhythm
mikically and emotionally.

In January 1922, the 1st central drama
tic studio merged © theater studio
synthesis into one tonal-plastic name-
nor the studio resident Sidelnikov, who was killed at the crown
Stadt front.

Among the works of this studio it should be noted—
collective recitation: “Mutiny” by Verhaeren,
“Dance” by Artamonov, “Hit with a Hammer” by Okov, “We
and Our March" by Mayaikovsky, marched 50 times,
then "The Beginnings" by Whitman, "The First Ray" by Ha-
Stev, “Whirlwind” by Alexandrovsky. At least 50
times we went’ also rhythmic plastic staging-
ki: “Marseillaise”, “Ecossaise”, “Gnomes”, “Etud

mass action" from Grieg, "Leader" "Mu-
z" and the tone-plastic production "Labor".

At the listed works the Moscow pro-'
letkult came close to resolving the
request to provide studio students with amateur
ity in their collective work, using ©0-
appropriate studio work methods.

As for regional studios, they use
use of the most prepared studios -
tsev as instructors in 1921 gave
positive results. District studios from educational
creative work switched to creative work, but the work
is still hampered by the lack of teaching
teachers in special subjects: rhythmics,
plastics and so on. and turnover of studio members (mo-
bilization, business trips, transitions
to the center).

In the area of the repertoire of district studios, there has been
in 1921-1922. significant change. Usta-
firm ideological leadership was new!
as such. Instead of Ostrovsky, Igor's monologues
Severyanin and others introduced improvisation, live
newspaper, propaganda pieces that correspond to the moment (state
Lod, Genoa, etc.).

Musical and vocal studio of Moscow
Proletkult was reorganized in 1921,
what is the basis of her methodological works
was supposed to “go from the bottom up”, sensitively
listening to the amateur work of the studios -
tsev. From the material learned, it should be noted
sing revolutionary songs: “Internationale”,
“Marseillaise”, “Proletarian Club”, “On
bayonets", "Varshavyanka", "Proletariat", "Pervo-
May anthem", "Stenka Razin", "Anthem of equal-
brotherhood", "In memory of the fallen" and several
to folk songs in artistic adaptation.

Studio Art of the Moscow Proletcult of Workers,
has been melting since 1919, organizing annually in Moscow
3 exhibitions each. and us.
152

TORE

No. 16)

The studio takes part in all revolutions
tion celebrations and performs tasks
proletarian organizations (plazas, portraits
figures of the revolution, illustrations of periodical
Russian publications, release of graphic albums
bot periodically).

` Terentyeva.

Regional work of the Moscow span
cult.

Currently the Moscow Proletkult
unites 5 citiestheir clubs: 1) Central
ny Club of Printers, 2) at the printing house of the former.
Sytin, 3) United Club of Prosthetic Za-
water and plants of Shchetinin, 4) District R.K.S.M.,

`5) Simonovsky district, and 4 factories

some proletkult in the province: 1) Podolsky,
2) Gorodishchensky, 3) Troitsky; And. 4) Bolsheveky.

First of all, attracts attention
‘Simonovsky club, serving a number of metal
personal factories. In the last season it is necessary
the opportunity to create a material base forced
him to strengthen organizational work and contact
with Political Education. He also succeeded in
the power of the metalworkers' union to contact more closely ©
enterprises (Dynamo, Amo, Bari) etc. with some
by which efforts to attract them to material
provision of the club. Organizational work,
done, with the exception of those designed for
the long process of unifying all cultural
organizations around this club. When Simonov-
The club has a strong, rich in large
talents, drama studio of 31 people. Your
she began her activities by actively participating in
social life: in organizing evenings
“starvation relief”, concerts for local
conferences and revolutionary celebrations, right-
The celebration on May 1st is held in an open area
have mercy. 26 are studying at the Literary Studio
person and judging by the progress of things, her future
the steel must be very interesting. Musically
choral studio for financial reasons re-
revived" to the R.K.S.M. section, where he leads
a major work, especially the domrachi orchestra,
the only one in the areas of the Moscow span
cult. The amount of work the club does, comparatively ©
previous time decreased according to the above-mentioned
For the reasons mentioned above, a number of lec-
tions: on electrification, agriculture,
religion, culture, etc. Special attention
machiyo is aimed at educational work among
studio people This kind of upbringing must be given
tribute to the leaders of the club - is carried out with

A great success.

Next in terms of interest is the club
at the printing house formerly Sytin. At the beginning of its

he did not make great demands on the organization
strengthening the proletkul in itthe same principles
pov And all his activities © 1920 BC
standing time was expressed in opposition
proletkult from the outside as individuals
from the cultural commission and the factory committee. In this her-
Proletkult zones managed to deliver the same work,
like no other club. From the organi-
nizational and ideological chaos, which
especially distinguished by the Sytinsky Club, in the present
Currently, 4 well-functioning units have been created
diy; dramatic, 36 people, for adults
and children of 18 people, choir of 60 people, iso-
brilliant of 30 people. and literary ‘from
55 people The work of the studios, despite their short
temporary existence, gives tactile re-

results; drama studio, hesitantly

working on mastering the technique, he finds the possibility
unwillingness to take part in public activities
both. Of particular interest is the most
numerous literary studio. Equally
with mastering the history of literature, this studio
has its own staged materials, which
ry ‘transferred to the drama studio.

Educational and general education
creative work in this club is carried out widely
and it runs fine. As for the mass
work, then it begins to take root: \Tadl
for example, the number of studio members in some studios

brought to the maximum in all student lectures.
there is a large number of constants

diy
front workers.

The next place is occupied by the united club
Prosthetic factory and former factory. Shchetinina. This one
the club is relatively young. Work in it torus =
mainly due to the lack of mathematics
real funds.

The club has two studios: drama-
Sky in 96 people. and a choir for 16 people. Work
studios is carried out at an accelerated pace. For example,
drama studio for its short existence
(© November 1921) managed to give an interesting
staging "Flengo" inst. Comrade Pletnev, for now
The head of it is the mastery of stage techniques. art-
stva, the upcoming ‘activities of the club are planned
along the lines of attraction and interest
workers in circle activities. One of the right
practical measures in this direction are
friendlyparties as a means of getting involved
education of workers into cultural and creative work. work.

Later, other city clubs formed
formed: Central Club of Printers and Students
stock club of R.K.S.M. Baumanovsky district.

The Central Club of Printers was organized
at the beginning of 1922 and there are three studios in it:
dramatic, musical-choral and literary
tournaya The studio is scheduled to open

.

MA VI. troubles

8

No. 1 (6)

LIFE OF PROLETKULT. '

graphic production. One of the closest
The main and first tasks are the correct organization
nization of mass work that could
attract workers.

Club R.K.S.M. Bauman region showed
experience of working among young people. Taking
taking into account the specificity of work among young people,
the club was given an appropriate leader
and a special plan of activities in it was drawn up.
It must be said that this club is located in
incredibly difficult material conditions,
for he was removed from supply and by the District Committee of the R.K.P.
and M.B.R. K.S.M. and Political Education. B
this club has organized two studios: drama-
cheskaya i. choir and political circle.

Interesting and efficient from the provincial
organizations is Podolsk Proletkult.
Being popular for its serious
what's the matter among the working masses, he quickly reached
Stig of influence on other religious institutions,
located in Podolsk. On one of
meetings on the transfer of jurisdiction
Podolsk Proletkult, workers' club
representative of the local Political Education (he is also a representative
Ukom leader R.K.P.) offered to take
Proletkult management of all clubs, on-
walking in the city. This is undoubtedly
your reasons. First of all, setting the case
in studios: drama, (35 people), (music
choir (25 people), literary (17 people),
fine arts (26 people) created’ for-
lost reputation. Mass work area

widely affected. Lectures, reports, exhibitions,
performances, parties alternate between one and the other
gym In connection with the merger with the workers' club
The Podolsk Proletkult smiles unrelentingly
asset firmlyth material base, compose-
coming from contributions from local factories.

Gorodishche Proletkult represents from
yourself and interest. both from the studio and
mass work. There are 3 studios there: music-
choral, dramatic and literary.
The Political School is open. Weekly reports
and lectures. attract a large number of workers,
reaching up to 300-400 people.

Bolshevsky Proletkult presents a great
great interest in its studio Izo and the composition of Dra-`
mathematical studio, which is entirely co-
stands among workers with a large percentage of communi-
nists.

Trinity Proletkult, although very weak.
supplied with instructor forces from the center,
but has good workers in place -
cultists, and all cultural work, there is always
was strictly proletarian in nature.

This year we managed to attach to the important
to the greatest Proletkults in the province of dramatic
ski instructors from senior studio students of Gub-
Proletkult. This immediately raised the
height of both artistic and social development
bot in local Proletkults, and those sent
there the lecturers complete this work.

In general, working in the province gives great
and interesting results.

=

Tula Gubproletkult.

Tula Gubproletkult, organized in
the turbulent period of the Denikin danger in 1919,
began to carry out his creative work in
extremely difficult conditions of that time,
There were not enough leaders. The composition of the studio members
and thanks to this, everything achieved was swept away
elk, the accepted work plans were not implemented,

But, despite all the difficulty of the work,
Still, quite a lot has been achieved. At Proletkult
There are currently 4 independent
departments: theater, music and vocal
ny, literary and artistic.

At the theater department on February 4, 1919.
was, a drama studio was organized, in which
which included 100 studio students, most of them
from the workers.

In mid-1919, BML was separated from the studio
working drama group.

Since February 1920, when the thunderstorm passed, de-
Nikin's invasion, work, in the studio reached
best hedgehog

‘From the total composition of the studio were allocated
the most capable comrades, removed © works.
in factories and transferred to state
dependency, as a result of which the studio gave a number
artistically consistent spec-
tactics, both in the city and in the province. C
August to October 1920 the studio received
task to go to the Belopol front, in
during these three months she gave 30 performances -
lei that passed with the rise,

In January 1921, the working drama school
Diya opened her proletarian theater with a play
Comrade Pomeranian “Sunbeam”, which in the
the period of January and February was 16 times in a row with
equally large increase in working audio
torii.

In the second half of 1921, by decree
The provincial executive committee of the Tula Proletkult was
a people's house was provided, the renovation of which -
for the celebration of the 4th anniversary of the October Revolution
lution was completed and the theater was opened
154

No! (6)

new play “Lena” by comrade. Pletneva, who
walked up to 17 times. In addition, plays were staged:
“Slave”—Arsky, “Mason”—Bessalko, “Not
walk"—the collective work of Rybinsky Prolet-
cult.

Currently, at the workers' theater there is an organiza-
workshops, decorative, costume-
nye and so on, scientific and educational cinema-
tographer and library.

Music studio of the Tula Proletkul-
that, except for the choir learning excerpts from operas
and various songs were organized by the Musical Bureau
searches, whereby they were recorded and processed
different songs and melodies. In 1920-1921
music was written “Our Prologue” - Gasteva, “We
encroached" - his and "March of the Red Army"
to the words of Rublev (music by Polomsky), “Hymn of Kr.
army" (music by Morelli), learned the sonata "Work
“Whose Palace” to the words of Pomeranian, staged
opera "The Miller, the Sorcerer, the Deceiver and the Matchmaker"
going with success.

In terms of fine art—Tula Prolet—
the cult took part in decorating the city
yes, for May 1st, I organized art shows
exhibitions, and some of the exhibits were
sent to the Central Committee of Proletkult.

BURN.

Tula Gubproletkult serves the factory
richno-factory. Proletkults at the armory
and stalemateronny factories and railway. Except.
In addition, Proletkults are scheduled to open in:
Bobrik and Shchekin.

At Proletkult at the arms factory, on-
which has 18,000 workers, there are
theater, music, art studios
telial and literary. The composition of the studio members—
workers predominantly. Classes are attended
studio members very willingly.

The cartridge factory employs 11,000 workers
sneeze, work is being done in the field of fine arts
and musical. There are numerous studios.

Railway Proletkult is located in:
organizational stage.

Straightening the proletcultic line along
the specified factory Proletkults
is carried out energetically.

Between them and Gubproletkult a
close connection: in the presidium of Gubprolet-
The cult includes two representatives from weapons -
nogo and one from cartridge factories.

The Tula proletarian willingly goes to Prolet-
cults and thereby shows the vitality
proletcult organizations.

Rybinsk Proletkult.

Proletkult has existed for 2 years and has become
declares the industrial proletariat of the province, declares
uniting up to 80,000 workers, of whom
possessed mainly by metalworkers, tech-
stylists, woodworkers, railway workers
ki and watermen. Workers of factories and factories of the province
territorially represent companies
compact mass, which is very convenient
property ‘for work.

Currently there are theater,
music and art studios, literature
there is no tour studio as such, but
this work among individual comrades is all
is still underway. At the Rybinsk Proletkult there were
There are also children's Proletkult and two workers
club. All Proletkult studios have introduced
teaching political literacy.

The product of collective creativity of studios -
members of Proletkult is the play “Don’t Go”,
about which there are positive reviews; you-
several issues of the collection “Children's
Proletkult". The Rybinsk Proletkult was
4 periodic demonstrations were arranged

rates in Rybinsk, 2 reporting in Moscow,
1 floating on a barge and 1 in Vesyegonsk.X. 4

&

According to the review of the local provincial committee of R.K.P., “if.

view these exhibitions in chronological order
okay, then you can see how gradually,
© great difficulties, the studio students mastered
mastery, gradually expanding his artistic
feminine tastes and requests, not being satisfied
forms of bourgeois painting,
new paths in fine arts."

It cannot be said that the work of Proletkult
limited to four walls. When organi-
tions of various kinds of weeks, holidays and
etc., both by the provincial committee and the provincial professional council,
Proletkult took an active part in
serving them with performances, writing
kats, etc. on relevant topics.

As a result, the activities described above
In fact, we can say that Proletkult has grown
over three years of existence into a large, welded-
comradely solidarity, working
cultural organization.

Proletkult, Gubkom and Gubprofeovet
Dima, we found a common language.

V.D

tt r oo t

<
h\-*

>
->“
<

a,

re” from PI

LIFE OF PROLETKULT.

155

Tver provincial Proletkult exists
has been in force since March 1919. During its three years
life, he managed to grow stronger and conquer certain
divided position among the proletariat of the mountains.
Tver. Proletkult became a unifying center
“cultural life of the local proletariat.

Currently Proletkult serves
on their own working areas: Morozovyekuyu
factory, Beregovskaya and Snaryazhatelny 3za-
waters, employing more than 45,000 workers. Of these
dominated mainly by textile workers,

During the first period of Proletkult activity
internal studio work was carried out, and Pro-
letkult did not play the prominent role that
occupied now, after the theater was allocated
nal team that managed to show their
achievements over a two-year period of persistent me-
todic labor.

The theater group staged on, indicated
the following plays in the factories and factories:
“The Dawns of Proletkult” staged by V. Ignatov,
"Death of Hope" - Geermans, "Flengo" and
“Blizzard,” staged by V. Pletnev, “Ma-
rat"—Ampuel, "Weavers"—Hauptmannand whole
a number of independent performances.

At the last conference of the Tverskoy Prolet-
cult, which took place in December 1921, for-
there is a strong connection with the cultural department of the lips
trade council The last resolution passed
on the transfer of all club work to trade unions
Tver is under the jurisdiction of Proletkult. Factory workers
and factories were also on the side of Proletkult.

Now a constant connection has been established with Kult-
department of the Provincial Trade Union Council through mutually

*

” placement and participation of Proletkult in the club-

no work.

There is also a connection with the textile trust,
which provides Proletkult some support
terial support.

In addition to the theater group, currently
open studios: music, open-
sewn in factories, piano class, in cash-

_ only children of workers are taken into account, placing

the goal is to educate them in the proletarian spirit.
Under Muzo, a house choir and orchestra were organized
ristov.

Studio "Izo" also consists of. workers. under-
sprouts The plan is in the organization stage
cottage workshop.

“A political literacy has been introduced in all studios and
“Ace educational subjects that unite

ъ

All special studios in one whole,

Tver Proletkult in the district had four
Proletkult, but the ilenum of Ts.K. Veerossiy-

Tver Gubproletkult.

sky Proletkult from February 2-5, 1922
Proletkults in Torzhok and Ostashkov are closed,
due to insufficient data by the state
financial and material resources and approval
only two factory spans are expected
cult: in Kuznetsovsk at the porcelain factory
and in Rzhev, serving textiles, like
most correctly and intensively leading
cultural and creative work. In Kuznetsovsky
Proletkulte has few specialist teachers, &
because all the work, the studios, was built according to the principle
the principle of amateur performance. At this time, at
There are departments “Teo”, “Muzo” and
"Izo" and modeling studio.

Rzhevsky Proletkult is the base for
cultural and creative work of the entire local pro-
letariat: two flax factories, one
spinning mill, two oil mills, timbersaw mill, block factory, printing house
and metal workers - demo of two iron
expensive

After two years of studio work, Pro-
letkult was able to select a theater group
from the studios who developed into working ac-
Terov. a

But, unfortunately, Proletkult does not have
own theater, moreover, due to the lack
there was no way to rent studio members
from work in factories and factories, and therefore Pro-
letkult uses the theater of watnarob, and ac-
Proletkult members after a working day
wash your blouse and put on a theatrical costume. B
the repertoire of the Rzhevsky Proletkult includes
plays: “The Death of Hope” by Geermans, “Ma-
rat" - Ampuella, \"Flengo" - dramatization by V.
Pletneva, “October”—a collective dramatization
ka-improvisation according to Verhaeren.

The music department organized a choir, which
who has Russian folk in his repertoire
new songs, revolutionary crowds and staged
improvised operas created from ancient
Russian ritual songs. They work at Muzo
three piano studios, where no exceptions
strictly children of workers.

Studio Art from the framework of the studio "ChabnoE Paradise"
bots switched to, production plan—writes
by order of the district committee R.K.ShP, R.K.S.M,,
trade unions, political education—posters, slogans,
worked on painting the Red Army barracks
for the Day of the Red Barracks, paints decorations and
costume sketches for "Theo".

The center of gravity of the entire proletarian culture is...
bots are now thrown into organized scientific
new studio in which they scientifically understand
156 HORN. №1 (6)

and issues are being developed: trusting in-
industry, acquaintance with large industrial
stu R.S.F.S.R., as well as issues of the problem
philosophy and psychology of creativity in the light
revolutionary Marxism and communist
ideology.
In-depth work is underway to study
economic disciplines and acquisition
methodological skills are examined in detail -
research on international economic problems.
One cannot pass over in silence a number of children's schools.
diy: Art, Muso and theatrical, which have
“Great achievements in my children’s creativity.
An art exhibition was organizedchildren's creativity
which attracted attention with its direct
definitely hot, bright colors. Teatral-
This studio has its own repertoire, and the next one
fly workers in factories and factories
they have their own theater. Young Proletcultists
do not miss a single holiday and
"howl of the play to the factories to their little ones

4th Moscow Regional Conference of Proletkults.

On May 6th in the Red Hall of the House of Unions
was chaired by Comrade Pletnev 4 Gub-
conference of the Moscow Proletkult. Question
the conferences themselves were the report of Comrade Pletnev,
“On the methods and forms of work of Proletkult”
and a report by Comrade Dodonova on the work of Moskovsky
Proletkult. The conference was welcomed by the so-called
Diament on behalf of the Cultural Department of M.G.S.P.S,
indicating a rapprochement between Proletkult and Prof.
unions in their cultural activities. E

Comrade's report Pletneva.

The work of Proletkult is expanding and therefore
survey about the methods and forms of his friendly
‘work must be put first and foremost

red. Creative amateur activities and teams.

visism of creativity, as principles, we preserve
and Now, but we must change our tactics
thread This is encouraged by a number of conditions.
current^ moment, in particular N. E. P. Rus-
the proletarian is to a certain extent declassified
was torn, weakened from moral and physical
exhaustion; the new bourgeoisie is growing up, striving
trying to take on a new American look; cross-
The gentry puts forward its ideologists. And this is on
next to [when in the construction of a new life
requires special purity and class hardness
new self-awareness of the proletariat. Can you please

Let me say that we are still fighting for it.

grub. on, the creativity of life, the very revolution

PRAZZH E, o CHAR o ZNVINU I

brothers and sisters. The following were supplied
plays: “Evil Gall”, “Grandfather and Granddaughter”, “Ali-
Nur", "May Night" - according to Gogol.

All studios have introduced general education
nal subjects and political literacy. Among the studios -
It is necessary to note the noticeable growth of pro-
letcult consciousness, developed by the principle
tion of amateur performances and strong camaraderie
rallyfeature, thanks to which Proletkult
and can work despite extremely difficult
financial situation.

In general, to summarize the brief review of Tver
of the Proletkult and its districts, one might say
I mean, that in the three years of its existence, _
it has grown into a powerful cultural and creative pro”
Letarian organization and'on is worth it
local organizations such as Gubprofoovet, Gubkom
R. To CPU. and Gubpolitproevet stood on guard.
interests of this center of truly proletarian
culture.

life in all its depths is just beginning”
now.

The process of growing bourgeois against us
front, not a phenomenon only of the Russian native -
character, but is the result of the work of the mi-
new counteracting force, and therefore
sha work should not be wider than Russian
scale. The Western European proletariat is
begins to set us as an example for himself (in Italy
already have their own Proletkults). Cultural
the movement at the bottom is intensifying in its growth
at a leisurely pace. ‘And in order to occupy,
leadership position in cultural work, so
the same as in all areas of revolutionary creativity
quality, we must take this phenomenon into account most
in a strict manner. Weight. looking for deep scientific
knowledge. We need to create a counter movement
from above, lifting it up to you. By what methods
you can raise the mass to a higher level; —
stump. The unions are faced with the task of raising |
class consciousness of the proletarian masses. B
the current class consciousness of the proletariat
must be replenished with new elements
ment of production consciousness. The worker became
employee not part-time, & state and
enterprises. It is not only a mechanical unit
tsa, but creating new ‘conditions, the master of life. —
This is the product of this consciousness in a |
There are often no real comrades. There is no consciousness.
that they are part of the team according to ©ozda- =
E.

LIFE OF PROLETKULT.

157

nutritionalism with his labor at the machine. This determines
the methods of our work are shared to a great extent
bots. In the field of science we must give knowledge,
and giving them up withwe've been using the old ones since then

_ methods. We haven't thought about this yet

summer resident, in which the task would be based on

in practice, on real life facts.

In vocational education we observe
given a bias towards excessive specialization without knowing
Communities in general with the economy. Myel worker
must go further than his machine, spreading
to reach a global scale. Necessary, monitor
istic form of curriculum construction.

_FNecessary, part 10b from a number of lectures on economics

comrade, it turned out to be a clear and clear picture
world economy. In this regard, great
You can also use excursions perfectly.
these to factories, factories, etc.

Art is a very big auxiliary
a weapon in our common struggle against capitalism
and the negative attitude of many comrades towards him
riches is wrong. Let's take the theater. Here you need
in addition to accumulating one’s own creative powers,
to give conditions ‘so that the proletarian masses would-
la is isolated from the elements of the Bur-
zhuaz culture. ‘We, selecting the material,
must be assessed most carefully
from the point of view of our ideology. We have expanded
The decorative workshop is busy. Iso ob-
Our theater serves as scenery and costumes.
The strength is there, you just need to use it. B
in visual work, as in the theater, we
we are moving from a narrow cultural and creative

® cultural and educational. I have strength
they need to be used on a wider scale
ittabe.

A sad thing has happened in the field of literature.
thing. Our literary studios reacted poorly to
life. They locked themselves into a narrow laboratory
bot. But here we are already changing the method. his
work: expanding the programs of our magazines,
giving answers to a number of questions of concern
now the proletarian masses.

There is still a long way to go in the field of music. ra-
bot to bring something revolutionary into it
cyonizing consciousness. The work rhythm is here
must be used.

You need to pay attention to the physical
culture, but not at the angle of a sports point
vision, & creation of harmonic developed
person.

This is the way towhich we are planning. We must

- convened a number of meetings with cultural departments

Trade unions, for joint development of issues
Vov in all types of art. The work must
be concentrated in a single central club, where
we must build experimental laboratories and

give there what is detailed and comprehensive
thought out and tested.

In his final speech, Comrade Pletnev, not
Denying many shortcomings of Proletkult, he pointed out
that this is a general position; our slave factories and
Universities have no less shortcomings.

Meanwhile, many representatives of Western...
European Proletkult deeply and seriously
appreciated the practical achievement. Proletkul-
ta. It’s not for nothing that when we need something done,
for workers and guests from Zalada
communicate only in Proletkult,

Resolution on the report.

“Having heard Comrade Pletnev’s report on methods and
forms of work of Proletkult, conference
expressly approves of the provisions outlined in the report
and instructs the newly elected presidium to
begin their further development and practice
technical implementation."

The work of the Moscow Proletcult.

With a report on the work of the Moscow
Proletkult is represented by Comrade Dodonova. at

The previous conference gave Moscow
Proletkult directives: establish contact with
the masses, the trade unions, to embrace and lead.
all cultural and creative work among workers
sneeze This was only partially achieved.
All our attempts to take control of cultural
theoretical work was broken up by contradictions
action Dept. Nar. Arr. Representative,
Trade unions were passive. Installed
the point of view that everything will be done by the center. Critical
There was no Russian attitude towards Proletkult.
The lack of a solid financial base was
The third reason for disruption is lack of work. State
society releases extremely little. As a result:
from 14 Prospects throughout the province during this year
had to be reduced to 3; from 10 clubs to
5. For financial reasons
studio students had to be paid and significantly
strictly reduce. | :

The usefulness of Proletkult is now recognized,
manyand even the Moscow Council. Ts.K.
R.K.P. considers Prospect to be his combat detachment.
Many have realized that relying on a cultural
much better than a specialist. Interesting about this
make an attempt by Pr—ta to switch to economic
calculating the exploitation of the Hermitage. But, no-
looking at the petitions of trade unions, the Moscow Council
The Hermitage took it away and it is unknown how it will compensate it.
The work of the studio workers took place in very difficult conditions.
material conditions. Over the last five months
Syatsev had 35 performances in `organizations..
G 158

GOR:

x
No. 1 (6)

not counting the 2 mandatory per week during work
club

During this time, 612 lectures were given. From
there are 432 of them in the center, 115 in the districts and in the province
65'.. On average 153 lectures per month. Total studios-
during the reporting period there were 1127 residents. Of these
workers: 67.5°/o, children of workers—27°/, and pro-
sneeze - 6.50/,. In terms of party affiliation - 10°/, communi-
© Comrade,—20.7°/, members of the R.K.S.M. and 69.3%
non-partisan. The number in the center was 136, in the
bang—811 and outside the club—180. The studio members are pro-
went to political literacy. Central studios
traveled during the war to the front and large ra-
Bochi districts. The work was very productive.
After the trip to Pr—tu, a mass of
instructions, distance of instructors, instructions, etc.
Last year two groups traveled as
instructors. Izo was in Altai. Departments
Moskovsky Prospekt has done a lot of method-
prelogical work. The future plan should
but enter ideological and methodological guidance
leadership, practical work. I think
a range of conferences in specific industries
work. All our programs must be printed
and give them their places. Our decorative workshop
can serve artistic work
Trade unions. Control needs to be established
over the specialists. on the ground and prepare their
their instructors. When organizing a scientific
diy province will have several places. By-
entering the studio should not be unorganized
of a low character. Trade unions must
We send our comrades on a mission. `

Resolutions on the report.

The proposed so-called proposals were unanimously accepted.
Pletnevym resolutions. Resolution on dsalary:
“Having heard the report of the Presidium of the Mo-
“<forever Proletkult, conference of ascertain-
says: 1) that the Moscow Proletkult is responsible for
even period, despite a number of obstacles,
Serious practical work has been done, especially
most methodological work. 2) Approving on-
currently labeled by Proletkult
communication with trade unions and expansion
extension of his work beyond the cultural and creative
and welcoming the readiness of the trade unions to go along
this path, the conference calls on t.t. span-
cultists, etc. from Trade Unions apply everything
efforts to implement ‘proletcults’
< some methods and practical forms of cultural work.
.3) In the interests of unity of the line of work © prof.
alliances and coordination of forces, the conference will
makes it necessary to concentrate the methodology
cultural and’ ideological leadership

Y

` fk *

work of Trade Unions in the part assigned to
Proletkult, in this last, as in one
center. 2

Resolution 0b of the selection of the Hermitage: “Con-
preference, having become familiar with the fact of selection
Moscow City Council at the Hermitage Avenue and handed over
whose lease it to private entrepreneurs,
stating, at the same time, that it is extremely difficult
low malerial position of the Studites and his
work in general, considers the tactics of the Moscow Council in
this issue is erroneous, damaging to the proletarian
a devastating blow to cultural work. Considering
do not need to interrupt, &, on the contrary, intensify- _
to pour the work of Pr—that, in view of expanding the scale—
work, according to the resolutions of the conference
cultural departments of M.G.S.P.S. and the united
conferences of the Pr—ta and cultural departments of production
national unions, the conference turns to
To the Moscow City Council with a request for indispensable support
Proletkult, both by providing it with
atral room sufficient for development
the work of the 1st workers' theater and its other stu-
diy, as well as providing material assistance, commercial
compensating him for the loss of profitability that he had]
be from the Hermitage property, a conference pro-
sit t.t. support trade union representatives
Proletkult when passing the question in pre-^
zidium of the Moscow Council."

Re-election of the Presidium. at

The conference carries out re-elections of the pre-
zidium of Moskovsky Prospekt. The chosen ones

are called: =
s

Members:

Ivanov (from the metalheads). |
Diament (from the cultural department of M.G.S. TsP. =.
'Lomsky (from the printers). ev\
Lukin (from Mosk. Prospect). : and
Blagonravov } #4
Dodonova,
Grigoriev (from Moscow t

Tumanov

Vladimirova

Candidates:

‘Antonov (from the food industry).

Rabinovich (from textile workers).

Serebrennikov (from the cultural department of M}.G.S.P.S.).
Krivtsov (from Moskovsky Prospekt).
Kravchunovsky

Ginsburg?
Sukhov a-y g
Gan

No. 108.

’ LIFE OF PROLETKULT.

159

2nd Cultural Conference M.G.S.P.S,

At the same time, the 4th Regional Conference Prolet-
cult of the 4th of May ©. the 2nd Gubernia took place
Conference of cultural departments Moscow. Lip. Sov.
Trade unions. Rapporteur on the issue of Pro-
letcult, his work and his relationships
© The trade unions were comrade. Pletnev. According to
put together a resolution was adopted defining the
position of Proletkult at the moment and the form
relations between Proletkult and Trade Unions.

Here is the resolution in full:

Resolution on the report of Comrade. Pletneva.

“Tasks of Proletkult in modern conditions
and cultural work, trade unions.”

1. Considering the revival of capitalist
trends (particularly capitalist enterprise
rent, concessions, etc.)
the conference states that the proletariat is now
faces an undoubtedly growing ideological
Chinese front of the bourgeoisie. This front finds
<your specific expression, firstly, in the lit-
rature, secondly, in the decomposition of the theater, etc.
general lines on the restoration of the old ideology.

Apart from purely ideological issues,
On the bourgeois front, attempts to revive
of bourgeois practice and ideological methods
chemical processing of the masses in the field of all issues
economy and public.

All these trends threaten us with decomposition
class consciousness of the proletarian masses and
oblige trade unions to energetically strengthen
the spread of revolutionary ideology among the proletarian masses
tional Marxism.

2. Requirementse moment collides with p
extremely weakened, sometimes gone to nothing,
due to lack of funds, & hence the strength -
by government agencies, the People's Commissariat for Education; and
Glavpolitprosveta. To Trade Unions, by virtue of the agreement
the prevailing conditions, the whole burden of practical
tic cultural and political-educational
no work. From the bodies of ideological influence-
niya and control they turn into organs
practical implementation. This is a circumstance
society puts before the militant proletarian class-
social organizations—Trade Unions and Prolet-
hult—the task of organic communication, coordination
tion of their actions and forces in cultural creativity
cultural and educational work, and
practical implementation of it on your own
and by means that are emphasized as extremely

tea constraint. in material media
ties, and the need to reduce ai
Rata of practical cultural work.

Considering that Proletkult, which staged 08
cultural and creative tasks, etc. evasive
from expanding its work to the scale of mass
owl, is forced by general conditions to species
changing its policy along the lines of expansion
bringing their work into the cultural-pro-
luminous, without at the same time trying to
their own cultural and creative tasks,
the conference believes that the tasks of the Trade Union, and
tasks of Proletkult at the moment and during
given conditions in a certain part of their
bots coincide, creating the main preference
link to the organic connection of practical work
Proletkult bots with Trade Unions.

3. Conference, believing that the four-year
ideological organizational and methodological
The practical experience of Proletkult may incidentally
live as a serious support in the cultural work of Profeo-
Yuzov, considers it possible to carry out joint
with Proletkult their extracurricular work on
foundations of its methodological and ideological
principles, establishing in particular the following
forms of communication between Cultural Organs of Trade Unions in the Trade Union
letcult:

a) development of all issues of extracurricular activities
bots are concentrated in Proletkult, which
ry should be a scientific-
methodological center. In his presence they convene
conferences, meetings and commissions are created
on the development of methods and forms of out-of-school
cultural work,

6) along with this, Moskovsky Prospect will organize
together with K. 0. M. G. S. P. S. publishing house
on issues of cultural work among the proletariat,

c) in the Moscow Proletkult concentrated
systematic work is underway to prepare
cultural workers.

4. Since Proletkult is forced by force
specified provisions, adapt your
device to new working conditions and scale
expand its work from large enterprises
ties of industrial unions to the periphery
medium and small industry, then organi-
national forms of association to establish tracking
blowing: °

a) Cultural department M.G.S.P.S. organically
enters into the work of Proletkult, introducing its
representatives to its governing bodies No.
including 5 people (3 to the Presidium and 2 candidates
$

etc

U":

s ‘and
n

160 Mountain No. 1 (6) in th.
comrades), elected at the all-Union cultural conference of all cultural institutions of Proletkult to the
rations, acceptances and lies with the responsibilities of the corresponding

6) all his work of the Moscow Proletcult Union, p”
conducts along the allied line through the Cultural Departments e) district and provincial proletkults > f
Unions that thus agree on their financial support from Gubirofsoy- “©

zami. b

activities © general principles and directives
by you Proletkulta, G

c) in industrial districts where non-
necessity and the means are available, county councils are created
Prospects that combine their work with district
professional organizations on the same
reasons,

d) financing the work of factories
institutions of the Avenue is carried out through the attached

5. Specific forms of delimitation of practice

technical work between Proletkult and
Gubpolitprosvet is instructed to establish
board of K. O. in the process of practical work
bots. ‹

Editorial: Editorial board.

PUBLICATIONS

ALL-RUSSIAN and LOCAL PROLETKULTS.

Available for sale:

A. POETRY.

1. V. Alexandrovsky. her 16. A. Kraisky. Smiles of the sun.

- “not a village. | 17. I. Kuznetsov. Poems.

5. g Songs 6 ever. | 18. S. Obradovic. Swing.

4. P. Arsky. Songs of struggle. 19. I. Otsoli. Poem

Heart flowers. | . Rhenia.

5. Ya. Berdnikov. 1. rdtsa 20. N. Poletaev. Poetry.

6. B. Bogomolov. Poems. | 21. A. Pomorsky. Flowers of rebellion

7. A. Gastev. The poetry of the worker's blow. | 22. Semyon Rodov. Zarnia dash

8. Mich. Gerasimov. Spring plant. | 23. b s hurricane cat
{$ * a - b. Call us on our way.

b ". 5. Ilya Sadofiev. Dynamo Poems.
11. Efremov (Poor Man). Songs of a soldier. 6 : :
12. Vl. Kirillov. Iron Messiah. G. Samobytnik (A. o,
in YOU a | 28. E, Tarasov. Poems. :
Ch. ® . r i. Pur
15. and what the bell rang about. | 29. N. Tikhomirov. Red Bridge.

B. PROSE.
30. P. Arsky. Blood of a worker. Stories. | 43. A. Ermakov. Stories.
31. > Broom of the Revolution. Stories. 44. Cue. Stories.
32. P. Bessalko. Disaster. Roman. 45. A. Kraisky. What happened. Stories.
33. & Unconsciously. Roman. | 46. K. Lopatin. Dawn. Stories.
34. | To life. Tale. 47. S. Malyshev. Towards the light. Tale.
35. A. Vesnina. An enviable life. Stories. 48. V. Pletnev. Andreykino's grief. Story.
36. Small lighthouses. Stories. 49. A Gold. Stories.
37. V. Veshnev. Prisoners. Stories. 50.% On a quiet stretch. Stories.
38. Mich. Volkov. Letropication. Stories. 51. V. Popov. Stories.
39. AI, Worm. Stories. 52. N. Workers. Silhouettes.
{0. Mich. Gerasimov. Flowers under fire. 53. N. Rybatsky. On hammers. Stories.
41. Groshik. Stories. | 54. Ilya Sadofiev. Bloody staircase.
eo s Stories. Book two. 55. A Chapygin. Enchanted. Stories.
B. PLAYS.

s | 64. 3. Nevsky. The day before.

96. B. Arvatov. Mexican. No.:

57. P. Arsky. For red Advice. | == V. Pletnev. r

58. P. Bessalko. Bricklayer. , | . » Avenger.
|

59. Mich. Volkov. The Lord is sleeping. -- ry Incredible, but possible.
60. V. Ignatov. Dawns of Proletkult. 69. ” ah
61. V. Ignatov. Wedding party. y" ki.

F t u r 0 k. Flengo.
62. . . Kiselev. 0 priestly things. t L P ” s

2 $ > . . Okrovsky. E o.
63. V. Knyazev. Fabryedging and worker. | 72 I. And the battle VO shines.

D. ON ISSUES OF PROLETARIAN CULTURE, THEATER and LITERATURE.

73. F. Kalinin. Ideology of the proletariat.

74. and Proletariat and creativity. 77. V. Polyansky. About proletarian culture.
15. P, Karzhansky it rat rgni. | 78. V. Fritsche. Essays on the development of Western European
76. Val. Smyshlyaev. Stage processing technique |
sky spectacle. 2nd add. ed. t.GiP. | skoy literature.
Printed:

} Reader-reciter, from the proletarian revolutionary
Yakov Pevtsov - Gandurina, play. 1%
Science and the working class - Kalinina. ny works.

| Create - collection 1 - poetry and prose.

Proletkult publications are sent by sending money or cash on delivery to all cities.
republics and abroad. I

Discount for workers and party organizations, educational institutions.

Publication warehouse: Moscow, Vozdvizhenka st., 16.
922349®
’ || LITERARY-ARTISTIC AND SCIENTIFIC-POP"” ZY MAGAZINE

"HORN"

BODY OF ALL-RUSSIAN and MOSNOVSNOGO. PROLETKULTOV,

„ZHA

Year. 5th edition.

\ Permanent departments of the magazine: 1) Fiction. 2). Cultural issues,
8 Economy and ‘publicity. 4). Science and labor. 5) Professional movement.
6) art surveys. 7) Abroad. ' 8) Nritina and bibliography. 9) Nizn' Prolet-

} cults. 10) Chronina.

RA

Invited to collaborate in the magazine: V. Alensandrovsny, B. Drvatov

A. Arkhangelsky, N; Aframeev, V. Bazarov, M. Volkov, M. Gerasimov, R. IE,
G. Gorbachev, S. Grigoriev. Yu. Dobrynin, S. Dolnykov, A. Dorogoychenno, I. Doronin,
N. Nnukov, S. Zander, A. Zapolsky, I. Ilyin, V. Nazin, I. Nan, N. Nencheev, V. Niril-

fishing, Al. Nrechetov-Kolzhsniy, B. Nushner, N. Lavrova, I. Levenson, N. Lyashno, A. Mana-

rov, A. Neverov, E. Nechaev, P. Nizovoy, A. Novinov-Poiboy, S. Obradovic, N. Ozol-

| Prednen, R. Pelshe. V. Pertsov, M. Piolunnovsniy, V. Pletnev, N. Poletaev. M. Polin
I. Pchelintsev, S. Rodov, G. Sanninov, A. Sidorov, I. Sidorov, I. Smirnov-Yoniga, V. Smy*
Shlyaev, A. Sonolov, I. Sonolov,. N. Stepnoy; And: Trainin, V. Faydysh, N. Chemodanov
I. Shershnev, F. Shnulev.S. Shikhov, B. Yurtsev, P. Yarovoy. d. ;

Editorial office and office address: Moscow, Vozdvizhenka, 16. Tel. 57-40.

5 o.`oFo then" yaya
ISSUE 3 IS OUT AND ON SALE

ERIVOYACHNOGO LITERARY < ARTISTIC RESPONSE. and SCIENTIFIC: POPULAR MAGAZINE |

YOUNG GUARD"
,} D D }
organ C. N. R. NP. and C. V. R. N. ©. M.
The magazine contains stories: ‘
A. Dorogoichenko “Instinct”, P. Nizovoy “Pagans”, N. Sokolov “Batteries”.
. Poems UR
V. Alexandrovsky, A. Zharov, V. Kirillov, S. Rodov, P. Oreshin and P. SchelkKanova.

Articles and notes.

o
o
A. Averbakh, V. Alorashsky, M. Blumenfell, engineer. Vasil'eva, Il. Varlina, Eng. Vi-b
Nogralova, prof. Zavalovsky, P. Lepeshinsky, M. Pavlovich, M. Pokrovsky, S.

E

(

Rolova, engineer Svenchansky, V. Starikov, S. SrelinskKogo, Al. SshoklitskKogo, O. Tarkhanova,
L. Shatskin, P. Yarovoy, E. Kherson and AR.

Drawings by artists.
Leni, Lvov, Martynov, Frielberg, etc.

PRICE OF A SEPARATE ROOM 150 RUR. arr. 1922

To organizations and members of R.K.S.M. when purchasing or subscribing through the Office—SkilkKa.
You can write it out with a cash on delivery order.

Editorial address: Moscow, Vozdvizhenka, 9, Room. 21. Tel. 1-05-27, 28, 29, 30, forehead. 17.

Office address: Moscow, Nikolskaya 5. store. "Life and Knowledge".

ALL ORDERS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE OFFICE.

and E ooo oro =

c. oooh