“Workers of all countries, unite!

| ` boron

BOOK GUU-ya

Choskovsky
PROLET-CULT
koto
E ZV < be

“Workers of all countries, unite!”

oh

A etlg`g “1-5

YazdgA cha in

MOSCOW PROLETKULT

MOSCOW—!1919

189
Rie. S. M. Kolesiikova,
+9mM

North.

t.

Look here: the soul,
Perceived torture

Hopeless love, |

Autumn leaves rustle in it,
Rejection will soon weave in her
Northern Sveg cold ›
A blizzard swept away

Around me in wild Alaska,
Foretelling the limit...

It's me, the heel of my boot
Trampled the beauty of a fairy tale

And he raised his suffering hands.

C.

Snow rings on blue ice

Death rides as a circus rider.

The tracks are lonely.

The starless path has not yet begun, -

This is a test of yourself ‹

In a mournful northern cry. '

At this hour you need to become strong.

I'm breaking my daily routine

To reach heights more successfully.

The wind will sound,

Snowflakes swirl in the night

And suffering will sting angrily.

Oh, soul, wait, don't scream!

r in the north the powerful princess
od the cover of snow brocade.

Sh.

Why did I go north?
Why did you perceive the blizzard?

I dreamed of © spring sowing,

About flowers in the southern lutu.
Beauty is the messenger of suffering.
Happiness is to burn forever in struggle.

In this northern snowy mountain
I love it. I pray to you.
NEE E.

Gi:

That's the line |
And behind it there are ice drifts
And the snow whirlwind takes off.
I will put a seal on my lips -—4
There was too much anger
Cold like hard ice.
Stepped over -
Fatal milestones

plunged into a circle of snow,
Forever ‘shaken off the lack of will...
Blood stains—red poppies——-
Whirlwinds of blizzards sweep away,

| ‚2 9

Not a burden - the stone is heavy. /
My feet get stuck in a snowy swamp.
I haven’t forgotten: somewhere the villages are glowing:
Cities are burning in gold.
What's behind is the south-facing, r
The sun loves a gentle girl... › r
I'm coming. The salty wind is loud
There's whistles and trumpets ahead.

U[. 3
You get used to everything over time: b
And to snow, and to ice, and to fire.
The North is burning me on a polar fire
And the past, I keep.
In icy eyes without desperation
I loved looking at it on the way
And I saw what kind of nationality I amAnd what do I need to find. |
The hour marked by suffering
Fixed my gaze on beauty. _
I will drink the power of unspent love
And again I will rush to the heights.

UP. E
I will overcome ice and snowstorms,
I will freeze anger and anger.
It's sweet to wake up in the snow

' laid down,

Under the wind, a sharp tune.
The snow blizzard is still whistling.
For eternity the soul drinks joyfully.
I praise the tenacity that brought from the south
In the cold of me, who fell in love with ice.

V. Alexandrovsky.

BURN. 7

.x#
*
Dull, blinding evening
An old man hobbles from the East.
Candles flashed in the sky;
Silence in a lonely soul.

The doors are locked tight
I won't let anyone in voluntarily
I rejoice in the tenacious fairy tale.
The bell psalm rang4

The evening blows with wisdom.
One is not saddened by loss.
Affectionately shadow-snake
They stick to the plank floor.

The northern ice has melted

Everything is brighter in the blue-cloudy cell.
Pigeons fight in a flock

At the window in noisy fun.

A dull old man's evening
Exhausted from the long journey.
m the night on my shoulders,
smiling at the soul sternly.
V. Alexandrovsky.

Downy hats for pine trees
Today there will be a snowstorm.
The wind is gusty, chilly
The clouds are driving to the west.

Sheepskin will not retain heat,
The cold stings my sides like needles,
Run to warm up now,—
Soon there will be a field.

Then I will bury myself in the straw,

I will trust the bay with my conscience,
The body is compressed by a spring

I will be like a beast.

The clumsy sleigh rustles
Trees are like ghosts. Evening.
Lots of hopes and desires
Lum about a future meeting.

The road goes back,
The eyelids close tiredly.
Field. So many cloves
Summer has come?..

V. Alexandrovsky

%

G.

Today the traces will be smoothed out
Dull-sick yesterday,
I left behind forever
The winged word is “It’s time.”
I'm going to the East red
A youthful gray-haired wanderer,

L an alarmingly dangerous dream
I won’t stop others on the road

I.

The sky was destroyed by the glow.
The wings of time are hot.
Glows in the gray haze
Tomorrow is fiery-sighted.
Blood soaked kame%
Will witness the deaths.
Bullets on the 'tower, on the temple
New symbols have been knocked out.
They look with bared teeth
The soul is filled with spring.
Somewhere there are broadcast pipes
Hymns trumpeted the combustion.

I’m not waiting for the sunrise, -
I'm going to see him myself.
Wake upTannik dark-skinned plant,
I'm used to stuffy nights.
I got used to it and left my body.

My path is a risk =

But I reach the spiral |

And I see a fiery disk.

V. Alepeandrovsky.

®
Ex

Nationalization,

And still like wormholes—
There are traces of lead on the signs, |
But dedicated to the anniversary
Celebration of the end.

Let each, like the sword of Damocles,
Hangs over the creativity of the capitals,—
On the pavement that got wet,
Workers' blood, they will die. prostrate

The owners and their servants -
With faded gilding...

_ According to them, the World Winners

They will rush through their creative delight

And the red ones will be hidden from chintz
Cloths--O-in Akts. and Co.

And I will happily run around
The banners of labor are high.

Semyon Rodov.

In the village.

They're coming. imposingly, with a transshipment,
Village for mass, men

And the path, feeling with a stick
Blind old men are wandering.

The sexton in the choir hums like a bumblebee,
The people are pouring and bustling, ‘
To the left - the girls bloomed,
To the right - the guys rush forward.

And the deacon barked in a violent voice
Under the echoing dome, in the chime, -
Burey kopen ogumnyh hair
They fluttered into the pulpit,

`And through the windows, in a light breeze,

The smell of linden and rye flows

And—to life! to life] - in zvoyako a
singing

Frisky swifts are calling. :

Semyon Fomin,

g?
then

Lantern.

Surrounded by sparkling fog
Shine a lantern in the frosty darkness,

Throwing handfuls of pearls,
On the blue sparkling earth.

Shine on us, light-seeing monk,
Spirit unstoppable by darkness,
Snowflakes swarm around you
Brilliant swan fluff.

On the frosty and foggy road
Shine on us, sparklingly burning,
We move forward tirelessly,
Where is the light of another lantern,

In the distance a pale spot looms.
And it seems new paths, |.
What a friendly and victorious step |

We are destined to go through:

142

Exit

UH

* *
ze

Dedicated to the proletarians, the outcasts of the village.

Fields! I left the dusty city,
I came to you, my fields,
Sick, exhausted, powerless,
I pray for quiet rest.

You generously pour in clean air
In my poisoned chest...
How sweet it is to sleep here in the grass,
Listening to the vocal bird,
Ringing in the Blue heights,
Singing a song just for me.

“But a moment... and an ugly roar,

And a scream, and a squeal, and a ringing and a groan

And golusbirds are muted

And the vault of heaven became dusty and dirty.

And pale sick 'faces

In the fog of a city day
Suddenly they began to rush around madly,
Like ghosts around me

Their groan is hysterical and persistent
Follows me everywhere
So the city is smoky and ugly
Relatives smoked the fields.

Fields! I left the dusty city
I came to you, my fields,
Sick, exhausted, powerless,
And you... didn't accept me.

Nikolai Poletilz.
From the carriage window.

The express is rushing... Rumbling, grinding,
The noise of steam and the howl of wheels...

paradise forged cuts
‘ir of plowed stripes...

“I see in the evening fields,
In the quiet slumbering fields,
On the road, near the village,
Grandfather with a pipe in his teeth.

Leaning against the empty cart, “.
Long, long after...
I know: in our wild run
Grandfather decided to solve it, Vx

Unravel - understand the great
‚‹, The hum of rebellious cities, .
they scream
the mind of banners and the flame of words,

And with a calloused hand -
The alarm bell rings throughout the village...

d: it makes sense to retire for old age

‚ New fiery prayers T..
Unravel tenacity - rage
Fatal last battles!..

I shout out the window to the gray-haired man,

The third roar is a howl;

- Let's build the world differently
Hammer with matunya plow!..

“Grandfather!.. Don’t think gloomily, strictly,
“Shade your gray hair:

’ “On the scarlet road to the sun
“Your native land has come out!..”

. S. Obradovic,

No. 4

rOVN.

yE

lan ok

Story.

G.

The mountains were touched by the light of the evening. They
blushed and unsteadily went into the creeping
shadows emerging from the gorges. The eaglet looks
dealt with them and shifted from one foot to the other.

Neighboring mountains, dark chasms and
the bushes hid from him the world where she was
mother, and were alarmed by those flying from
behind the ledge the sounds made you flinch
vat. | .

Only the distant snowy mountains breathed
peace and beckoned, called purple
peaks. -

the sea parted, sparkling like a horseshoe
neck in the distance, changing from dawn to dawn
colors wandering in circles, stripes and
shoals of ri.

The wings spread, asked for something -
then they fell onto the rocky ground. Tra-
va was bending under them and timidly rustling
shala.

In the semi-darkness of the gorge, a spot marked
Xia bear. The bushes crackled under him,
dropping dry leaves. Keep an eye on him
The eaglet was disturbed by the screeching, and the young
jumped.

His mother saw this and made noise at him.
wings and pushed away from the carried
production He bowed his head,
trying to slide under her neck, but she
pushed him into the abyss and threw him behind
him, ready to give him her back.

He didn't fall on her this time, he hung
in the air and screamed in confusion. Mother
soared above him and beckoned him with her voice
behind you. -

He clumsily slid towards her and described
lard semicircle. The darkness that shifted
mountains frightened him. There was a light in my eyes,
and with a deep breath he fell on
nest...

The mother touched him with her beak and, while
calmed down oh, didn’t move, K do-

12.5

as if he had suddenly rushed, as if waking up -
and ate impulsively, greedily. {
He cleaned his beak, throwing his head back, yeah-

I decided to walk over the freezing stones to the surface.

and froze.

The moon peeked through the clouds. Light
its patterned wave turned silver over
peaks and poured into the gorges.

The side of a mountain appears, similar to
sleeping boar. Another mountain has turned black,
round, < chalky bald on top
ke. Then a scythe came out of the darkness,
as if a mountain had been cut down. Because of her you-
stone fingers stepped, stretching out
flying into the sky. And there are still more crowds -
the mountains were covered in twilight haze,
caught the running light, shook it off
from themselves and plunged into darkness.

Someone ran along the slope and fell silent
in a dry rustle, and the stone, touched
them, rolled... everyone listened,
how he jumped, caught sounds and repeated
I ruffle them.

And when silence reigned, the clouds
exposed the moon, and it stayed quiet all night
Regla sleep mountains. Everything fell asleep in her movement
floating pearly waves. Only the eagle
Nok raised his head and looked surprised.
listened. He was worried about the feeling
flight.

P.

The light began to play in circles on the sea. "Gi-
the tire and shadows in the mountains trembled. Echo
picked up the cry of a bird, woke up
varnish and they swam, casting red
with snakes on the edges.

The bushes began to crackle near the stream. Bear
walked to the water, climbed the ramp,
groaned over a round stone and pushed
him.

The stone broke the bushes as it ran, carried away
rolled up the earth, pebbles, and
covered in dust, disappeared in the stream.
14 BURN...

while the noise he made melted away, the mountainsbecame clear.

At the edge of the sea a canoe of fire swayed
sun. The eagle perked up and approached
to the eaglet, took him under her wing and
led.

He didn’t resist, he waved
abyss with wings, soared above
grew and shrieked to break the silence.

Flew higher than his mother, wider and wider
grabbing circles, swam into the jebo and caught
- with his eyes, everything that called, beckoned him.

I looked beyond the snow-white mountains,
behind him I saw a white plain, blue
haze, forests and soared higher. dissected
the chilly air burned © "wow and
rays of an aching heart.

Pierced towards the mountains and circled over the lower
mi. He glared at the moving
a gray dot on the slope, hardened and dropped
moved lower.

Floated in the blue shadow of the mountain and you-
burst out of her on the ring. The arrow drilled
nudged over the ledge, ahead of his shadow,
fell onto the ramp, used his claws for the first time
into the back of a hare who was spinning his ears. ula-
struck him with his beak on the crown of his head and flew into the air.

Blood oozed down the claws, flowed down
along the gray fur on the belly of Zain and Go-
droplets sparkling in the light flew towards
fleeing mountains.

The little eaglet sat down next to his mother and there
stuck his beak into the hare. The mother looked around
with the deep eyes of the mountain and with
flew screaming to new places,
throwing the fledgling eaglet. \

He watched her until she disappeared
it is behind the mountain ridges, cleared. beak,
fixed his eyes on the sun and basked in
his light.

over
th-

Sh.

At noon the whites fell asleep over the sea
clouds. The eaglet flew up to them and for a long time
swayed against the background of their reflections in the water
dark spot.

Voices like feathers scurrying around the rocks
the seagulls resembled a snort of grass, bending
under the wings. The little eaglet looked
fell into them, lowered his wings and fell.

Above the sea, in its measured breath,
saw an eaglet rushing towards him and
bent. The head is empty, in the eyes

it became cloudy.

like a chilly rain she floated away into the sea. =

The eaglet rushed to the shore and sat down on it.
rock, alarmed by the reflection ‘and _
the noise of hitting the seashore. .' _

and angry and threw his noise at him |
scream. The sea, as if surprised, trembled
fell and rose. Wave fanned |
the rock was sprinkled with foam, the eaglet was sprinkled with spray
gami and lay down in the hollow in front of him. h

He stepped back from her and shookroof- |
scrap. Solice dried it and thickened it
water gilding. Its warmth seemed
made the sea sigh, and sighs |
fell by the rocks in spots of caress and moved
dili in rainbows. ke.

Steam and swirls came from the wet wings—
lived at the head. The little eagle looked at _
your reflection in the hollow, gal it =
beak and peered into
the rippling sea in glitter and turquoise. —

P..

At dawn there was a breath of cold.
The sun went behind the mountains. The tops are
shared its light and became closer. 7
A cloud moved in from the north. Dalchi
the mountains cut her open, but she cut them off
the tops of her heads, lay down on them, got disheveled
and swam into the gorges. V.
The eaglet moved its damp wings
mi and tore the cloud with a cry. She sway-
she started, but the cry froze nearby, was thrown away -
ny, we place the Eaglet on the ledge and -
He shouted louder. Trembling damp-_
there was grass, but the cloud did not let IZ out.
screaming yourself. oh,
The moon appeared, surrounded by a rainbow -
with a ring and a crystal, thrown" -
nim ‘to the colorless bottom, looked around the mountains. _
The movement of the cloud became noticeable.
UPyurokh woke up the echo, the echo merged © =
pyurokh. The mountains were silent in alarm,
gorges and eaglet. We listened together, for
drowned by a cloud that dropped cold ones -
drops, and at once they became wary. ve
In the distance, 9 crashed against the mountains with a whistle:
a gust of wind rushed through the ridges and -
circled. The cloud has lifted from the mountains
The moon jumped out of the rainbow ring. I
On the slope, the Itians screamed, running -
on foliage and herbs. Entwined in the retreat -
hubbub and noise of wings. And @more below,

then above - voices sounded, frightened =
——— —==———

confused, and broke off, caught up
in m.

Hell's ledge flashed dimly
dotted snow. Spun around, sweeping in
cracks in the stones, and lashed at the strung
leaves on bush tires. .

The eaglet stood on the nest, restless
looking into the gorge. The wind threw in
the snow ruffled the feathers on his shins.
He moved, in anguish he jumped to
ledge and, pushed by the wind, fell...

From anger the chilly body became stronger
kim. He led to the side below
head, slid into the abyss and thunder-
ko called his mother.

The white whirling screamed around
him with hundreds of shrill voices, pe-
skewedwings and carried him away. He
hit © stone, as if burned,
took off and rushed through the pass, carried away
blown by the wind.

To the wet ones. Liam snooped

snowflakes melted. Familiar mountains are hidden
were behind a network of rushing cobwebs.
Cold dust poured chillingly
I'm frozen...
In the howl of the wind, whistling in the feathers,
the eaglet caught a familiar cry and
rushed at him with a scream. No answer
was... He squealed louder and, losing his si-
ly, he gave himself up to the will of the wind. Beneath him
the evil-voiced emptiness deepened and pulled
la him.

The moon disappeared behind the spire of the mountain. Nais-
golden spots began to blink below,
fussily entwined with snowflakes.

The wings touched the groaning trees -
ev. The eaglet rushed away from them, but weakly
bosom. aching from melancholy and fear of heart
tse, they dragged him to the one standing behind the bars
darkness. From the branch he touched with babbling
dry leaves fell off and he swam
to the clearing.

yatnas of light turned into squares
you. From them the wind carried alien mountains beyond
groins and barks. The eaglet hugged the snow for a long time
I listened in shock. Warmed up on
As the flight progressed, the wings hardened.

The little eagle straightened them and swung
from a sharp blade sliding along the back
pain. Feverishly shoved under the wing
head and tore the hardening ice. C
drops of moisture crawled onto the neck from the beak and
cold.

from

[. oRV: 15

The powder broke © the chest and
metal pogi. The eaglet scratched the under-
wing, tiredly folded icy
wings and became wary. The wind is
the barking was coming.

The eaglet jumped in fright in the depths
beating trees, getting stuck in the snow and drawing
along it with the ends of alien wings
stripes. By a heap of felled oak trees
stopped, looked at him and ducked under
branches. It was quiet there.

Driven by the wind, he ran through the heap
snow rang in the frozen leaves and fell
in front of the eaglet. He pressed himself against the branches
and watched until oblivion as a snowdrift of dew
walled him up.

u.

The dawn was cold and quiet. Meet
the foaming eaglet saw in front of the
battle emerging through the snow blue-
cottony pallor. He shook his head and
Hit with his beak in the place where
she poured. Snow crawled under my feet. On
the head and the corner of the wing fell a column of light
and lit up his eyes.

There was a haystack standing to the sideand, giving
covered with wind-licked whites
in layers. The sky was blue through the branches.
On the ice-covered trunk it poured
the light of the rising sun.

The eaglet widened the hole with its beak
and hid: the silence was broken by sounds,
flying at night from the direction of the lights.
The dog ran up and, clumping his paws,
snow, jumped under the flickering gaze
eaglet's house

Someone big came up to her,
he didn't move, the haystack, and bent down. Stick
tore the snow over the eaglet and how
I knew the corner of the wing.

chest pain flared up
He dug his claws into the stick, screaming
jumped out and looked around in surprise
cases of the escaping dog and man.

The cold pushed the ends of the thawed
wings, silvered them, and his head
rough. The eaglet pushed off.
snow, fell in pain and jumped
walked towards the white plain behind the trees.

The dog and the man rushed after him. U
bushes he picked up crunchy
wings and turned around.
16 EP B:

No. 4

From the nose and mouth of the chalk there were clouds of
warmth and fell on the measured mustache and beard
white fibers. what about snacks?
shafts with steam hurrying into the cold
hoarse sounds. I was approaching with a visa
Hom bounced back. The man encouraged
and fell into the snow as he walked,

Behind the bushes the eaglet saw a
ry. Close, behind the forest they were, white,
majestic and called peaks.
The little eagle rushed to Them and fell to his

shadows. From scratched at night under-
wings dropped droplets of blood and blurred
walked on the snow creaking under their claws
into the stars.

The dog barked with joy. Orle-
Nok turned away. from the mountains and stood on his feet.
Gathering the rest of your strength, you craned your neck and
looked predatorily into the eyes of the approaching
person.

Followed his movements exactly
fell asleep while waiting. Swung higher

raised his chest, straightened his claws, ready-
howled to thrust them, and impulsively threw up
head: the mother’s scream rang out over the forest.

Rapidly growing shadow, beak shine
and the sound of the wings intoxicated the eaglet. En
jumped wildly and squealed.

The dog ran away squealing.
The man raised his elbows to his ears.

Mother, in a whirlwind of sparkles, rushed towards
him, squealed and lowered in a semicircle
went to the eaglet. Sparks around them
vspI'll gasp'. cold. Mother touched the key
eaglet, looked through him at the
pillars emerging from the chimneys of distant huts
smoke and “Sat down.”

The little eagle jumped on it and launched it
claws into her feathers and bowed his head.
She jumped, fluttering her wings
rainbow dust, rose up and sank in
the rays of the sun,

N. Lyashko,

No. 4.

Three

[.
In Sokopniki it was 191 years old.

Two Walks in Sokolniki: Old
n New.

At Novy Gulyanyi the audience is pure:
men in summer wide suits,
llamas in lungs, mostly white,
dresses,

Important, quiet, noble, in transition
note, this public walks around in circles
ka, with a peacefully bored and well-fed
with a new look. They talk, however, me-
I’m waiting for myself, but so decently that I can hear-
we are the most subtle transitions of the game
music. on the circle

From the cloudless, silvery blue
sky, right on the heads of the public, blinding
the hot rays of the incandescent
good sun. Tall pines, red,
they provide little shade and feel sorry for walking
wondering why they left so early.

There are few black people here on Novy
Partying. Occasionally gets stuck in a clean
to the public, like a fly in honey, a telegraph operator
in freckles. or an elderly teacher
native, with a reddish beard, in a
The suit is shabby and out of season. With the same-
us both, dressed under. number
that audience.

These couples are happy, very happy
myself and everyone: the audience is clean, everything is quiet,
noble, but it’s very hot and ho-
eager to drink, and look with envy
they are at a summer restaurant, where under a tree
curly tsami, in arbors, linen
fitted, dandies sit with beauties,
and reluctantly pull the effervescent coolant -
ny drinks. .

and

And, ab

17

———-=——--- : ra

Lika

But the foam is there!—and they embarrassedly offer
they to their ladies, tired of
thirsty, go to the Old Party - Seagull
drink in the garden,

Old Walk is covered in a cloud of dust.

Approaching it, there are no tall pines
visible even behind the dust: it’s impossible to breathe
possible.

It's difficult to get to the very center
lanje.

Black people, craftsmen, are pouring there
Damn, he comes down: watch your sides!

But then you came out with difficulty onto the square
huge, and immediately stunned, and nothing
not a ponyyou wave.

Everything screams, thunders, rings, and laughs,
and cries... sings... and sings... It’s hard to...
discern meaningful sounds in thunder and ringing
it is even more difficult to see anything in isolation
new in this huge, black and gray and
red, which rolls in yellowish dust,

Yes, and you don’t need to look at the individual
noe: nothing interesting: silver links
Nyat carousels, smeared clowns in red
and shout in yellow to the best of their ability...

It’s better to look at everything at once and realize
child:

In the hazy yellow sky with dust you...
juice, high, directly overhead, sunny
it's reddish from dust, straight red
throws down burning rays; and below,
in this yellowish dust, something is rolling
both huge and polynomial, but single-
something

It walks like a holun, wanders,
vaeteya, crashing with its tentacles into
alleys and paths all around; it screams
carbon monoxide, drunk, and thunders, and rumbles,
meaningful and strong.

2
C.
Easter 1917 in Moscow,

After a long cold, unusual
the cruel winter came immediately then
The winter is both warm and flattering. And from this,
or because the king and the policemen pro-
they were driving then, people all poured out into the streets
tsy, and Moscow buzzed and spoke,
like never before.

It seemed that everything was possible, and now
but now everything had to be decided,
so decide to never again
it was a cold winter, and the king and the city
exit And people in bowler hats and expensive coats
Yesterday they climbed onto the pedestals and benches
ki on the boulevards covered with mo-
a lot of green grass, and they said a warehouse.
but also for a long time, these people are talking about what we all
now brothers, there will be no more winter
and they called the man funny
cap without a visor and in supports “then-
comrade.”

Under the new, bright, gentle sky,
in the warm rays of the resurrected sun,
pure white, like washed stone
along the pavement, joyful people walked,
young, trusting.

He and he argued affectionately among themselves.
talked... talked... talked...

Everyone, everyone said: both the rich and the poor -
long, and fat, and thin, and beautiful, and
freaks. .

Only the rich and beautiful spoke
smoothly and complacently, and the poor and
exhausted, shy and timid.

ButMoscow was buzzing all seven days.

For seven whole days people were brothers:

Sh.
Moscow November 7, 1918.
In autumn ‘I always feel unwell as-
then:
No. weakness overcomes me, and nervousness
some kind of thing.

BURN.

No. 4

When I'm in the autumn for a long time
and in the fresh and cold air, cry
and sometimes you want to laugh for no reason
me.

So it was on this day.

Early in the morning at about 9 o'clock, I went out to
the street, which has already woken up.

I live in a factory district and when
I went out, near the factories and factories they were building
already the ranks of workers and developed over
with them red banners, in the bright ‘pro-
in the transparent air somehow you especially
the bubbles were human figures and distinct
banner colors

On the Arbat I began to overtake the workers, -

separate processions, merging, words.

but in streams, into a huge river, on Kras-
They walked to the new square. The faces were
strict, how tense; serious,
and only young girls were like
always very cheerful and laughed without reason
decorously.

I remember strongly at Arbat Square
I was struck by one car,

There were children sitting on it;

Their thin pale faces shone
with genuine childish delight, and the clothes
their shoes were torn and bad,

This car had a banner on it:

"Long live the children of the proletariat"
spoke the silver words on it.

I looked at this inscription, and

thin pale faces, and on shoes, _

and torn clothes, and I cried, like

small child, out of pity and out of hope

great, that soon, maybe very
soon the children won't be so poorly dressed
and as hungry as now.

I then stood for three hours on Krasnaya
ploncadie, looking like rows of slender without-
of course there were processions past the wall
Kremlin

And there is great hope
soul.

blossomed in

Nikolay Poletaev.

„There

Let's fight!"

Story.

Seryozha! Expensive! Don't go, Christ:

please. Look what he's doing...

sit on the street, because they will kill you, and you have a wife,

children, mother is sick, what’s wrong with us then?

there will be. - Anna said to Sergei, and he

stood leaning against the door frame and
I thought.

Two dudes are hornets in his head
ve, one thing: there is a battle in the street, and there are comrades there
shed blood forcommon cause, and he,
standing here like a pathetic coward; other:
mother is sick, wife nasiosyah, children alone
one less, you can’t leave, you’ll leave,
They will kill, what will happen to them. Okay es
the truth will win, but let’s do the opposite.

. *. . „". ER, _

s. . . . * * >” - . _

—— No, Anyuta. I can't take it anymore
Stand here like this, when on the street
Truth and Lies are fighting, I'll go. We
We must win and we will win!

s. . . _ . *. . .

Shouts are heard throughout the yard:

- Hey you, milksucker! What are you saying?
You're dragging around the Rons, so I'll take you... ‹

the door creaked and opened,
October came in from the open door.
sky chill, into the room. two came in
Sergei's comrades, one of tall stature,
Pavel Ryzhkov, or just what his name is
The name at the factory was “Red Pashka”; a
another bent old man Schwan

doseev +

Ashka, looking pleased, began to
say:

- We’re like them... at the Nikitskys, but
They’d rather do it—we’ll give up and fight—
They don't know how. But where can they resist?
Tiv front-line soldiers—they are only used to
Show off at parades,” added Ivan

Edoseev. EE

- Well, Sergei, will you go?
Pashka turned to Sergei.

“I’m coming,” Sergei responded,

- Don’t you have this? - showing
a brand new rifle, Pashka asked.

And here Sergei pulled it out of his pocket
Smith and Wisson.

- 9), brother, this is not your fifth year,
“Now here’s what,” said Pashka, ver-
you have a rifle in your hands. | g

- Well, let's go to the Committee, they'll give it there.

- Goodbye, Anyuta - and Sergei is ready
went to say goodbye to his wife, - Goodbye, mother,
- and he approached the old mother.

- Goodbye, darling, goodbye, let me
I will bless you,” and she wanted to re-
baptize your son.

- No need, your blessing is mine
it won't help if I get killed, but
They won’t kill me and I’ll come without prayer. Yes, -
he remembered, “but I didn’t even talk about it with my son.”
stood up, and he went up to the box on which
his eight-year-old son was lying there...

“Well, there’s no point in waking you up,” thought Ser-
gay covering a boy with a holey blanket
scrap

“Let’s go,” and the young man and his comrades went
headed for the exit.

- Seryozha, dear, don’t go, think,
“Where are you going?” she cried to him.
followed by the wife.

“I’ve already thought,” Ser answered.
gay,closing the door. |
Killed by his secret drinking

something terrible, Anna sat on the stool.
resting his head in his hands.

- Mom, I'm scared. They're shooting there
- the voice of the little son was heard,
brought her out of her thoughts.

“Sleep, sleep, darling, that’s it, it’s all over-”
“child,” Anna tried to calm her son.
Suddenly a deafening sound is heard outside the window -
20

GOR ZE

No. 4

second gun shot from Dziai,
day—windows flew out from the shock
„air.

“Mom!” the child shuddered, “I
I'm scared, where is daddy, I'm afraid without him.

Anna didn't move.

Shots are still being heard on the street.
ly guns and machine guns, among the cold
October night. Dawn has broken
hurried sounds were heard in the corridor
steps and someone's. naked repeated in a whisper:
“quiet, quiet, don’t bother me,” then from-
the door to the room was forced open. Anna, exactly
gave me an electric shock
up, began to look at those who entered and
I saw... Oh, horror: two men were carrying
Sergei was in his arms... He was motionless
marriage.

“Here, here,” the redhead commanded.
Pashka, (he was here) - here you go
on the bed.

“Ah,” Ann exclaimed, “they clapped.”
Herods - and she burst into tears! - scoundrels, . co-
he needed life. ..—But here are the eyes

lit up like a tigress when she killed
they are asking for her male...
-Where is his revolver? - shouted
she... - give it to me, I’ll go myself, _
I will avenge him, even if they kill me too,_
if necessary. |
- Come on, Anna. - persuaded the EU no.
Pashka - don’t go, it’s not your woman’s place there |
— No, I’ll go, I’ll avenge him, ——— |
she cried, pointing at Sergei, “I
I will avenge my Sergei... I used to sa-.
Mom tried to persuade him, but now I understand |
that only calloused hands should |
reign... I understood then when you
they brought him dead... - 0
And she approached Sergei’s corpse,
- Sergey, do you hear, I will take revenge |
I will take revenge for you... . r
And she went to the exit... | d
- Woman, where are you going, where are you going?
- There, ‘on your mind, into battle.
F. Kiselev.
to her

Second Conference of Moscow
Proletkulta,

On March 20-324 the second
citywide conference kul turn^-iro-
illuminating proletarian organizations, co-
called MoscowProletkult.

about its composition the conference was
purely proletarian, Of 212 delegates
with voting rights 171 was
sent by factories and factories;  the rest-
new - trade unions, regional
mi committees of the R.K.P., Center. Workers
Cooperative and other workers' organizations.

From the reports of the Executive Bureau, it was revealed
It was said that, despite the large number of noblato-
pleasant conditions (temporary - absence
Sredetz and premises, friction with Moscow
Department of Public Education and by virtue
these reasons and weak organizational
communication between the working masses, etc.),
Moscow Proletkult completed in a year
your * existence is a lot of work.

The Executive Bureau was organized

\/^ DRINK departments: club, music, fashion
° + Visual arts, theatrical and literary

literary and publishing house. Just for kahme-ni-

be it 6-7 months it was possible to create 51

Diyu with 2,616 students. Proletkult would-

10 there are several demonstration performances -

lei concerts, and which were demonstrated

There were works by studio members. Asian art department
cultural arts, two exhibitions were organized

Ki; at the All-Russian Fly-by Conference

cults and on the real (second) co-feren-

tions of the Moscow Proletkult. |

“The literary department researched proi-
Pius of working writers and poets. Pretet-
the cult has two of its own magazines -
< Not and “Beeps”.

detailed report on studios and their methods

work was presented by speakers from

. In charge of departments in sectional areas
Conference bots.

The Second Conference did not have to both
I was waiting for theoretical questions about the essence
proletarian culture and about the general tasks of pro-
Chetkulta: these issues have already been resolved
and which took place last fall

182.

All-Russian Conference. s
But it was necessary to discuss a number of
questions that Mo-

Skovsky Proletkult for 10 days of its
existence, put new practices
technical assignments to its departments, on
end, - start creating an organization

nationalization apparatus to the agreement of the new
regulation on proletkults, developednomu.
Congress of the All-Russian Council Prolet-
CULTS.

During the discussion, I reported ©
of the Executive Bureau before the Conference
the war stood up; 0? about relationships
Proletkult with the Moscow department of the People
native Enlightenment, also - from outside it:
school department.

This question was later discussed in connection with
report by Comrade Lebedev-Polyansky - “Volume
and the nature of the work of Proletkult”—and called
passionate debate.

Representative of the Moscow department of Nudity
of the Enlightenment and left Butyrekiy
Committee R.K.L. tried to finish off,
Proletkult carries out the same work as
and extracurricular department of the Commissarial, &
therefore, in the interests of saving energy and safety
Proletkult must stop its self-
sustainable existence, merging with
Extracurricular Department.

Other members of the Conference pointed out that
tasks of the Department of People’s Education and
Proletkult are different: the first should ve-
sty wide cultural-pro.vetitol ra-
Botism in all segments of the population in general
gift scale; second.0th serves
only the proletariat, promoting development

proletarian talents and identifying
pure youthful ‘culture,’
Bodvoy t petty bourgeois - on-

foliations; his work is culturally creative
cheskaya par excellence,

In this regard, there is a special laboratory assistant
nal method used in Pro studios.
letkult. at

But since there are two completely different
22

GR

No. 4

r herShchd. 4

tasks, there must be two co-
corresponding apparatus. Drain now Po.
Letkult with the Extracurricular Department, which
you are still in the reorganization stage.
it would be a big mistake; that would mean
destroy everything that was created with such difficulty
Proletkult for the year of its work.

The need for an independent existence
the existence of proletkultosis was recognized,
priority pelteniyas of the All-O’Siya Con-
ferences of the proletkults and the Second Fan-
Siysk Congress of Professional Unions
50c. This same point of view is shared by
People's Commissar for Education.

When voting on the Prodetavitel's resolution
Moscow region, People's EducationI,
t; Mitskevich, collected only 35 votes, for,
resolution of the rapporteur from Isp. Bureau of Holo-
got 75 votes.

In the resolution adopted by the conference,
It seems that in his future activities
Proletkult must follow the path not
as much expansion as ideological corner-
deepening your work; what should
distinguish between “cultural and creative” work,
which Proletkult should lead, “from the ra-

purely educational. in the whole state-
on a large scale", included in the main
the task of the Commissariat of People's Education
nia. At the same time, the resolution insists
on this contact of the new worker form
movement, which resulted in the construction of Pro-
light cults; © trade unions
and other workers' organizations, "re-
sharing the principles of the proletarian - vul-
tours.

There were objections at the conference
working methods of the Moscow Prolotkul-
that one? There were objections, and, quite
Typically, they came from those 2-3 cases
gats - Mensheviks who passed from
the notorious Union of Sorrows and - Prices -
of the workers' cooperative. Speak-
It was reported that using a laboratory method, Pro-
letkult is supposedly breaking away from the masses, ©03-
provides for proletarian artists a “greenhouse”
new atmosphere”, “hatches singles” and
etc.

It was even seen that there was a “contradiction” between the
I look forward to the task of mastering the bourgeois-college culture
tour and the fight against it.

In raising this kind of objection, our
“critics,” as we see, have discovered their

extreme unfamiliarity with the questions. open-
government, proletarian culture in the era
dictatorship of the working class. ;
The same opposition also opposed the principle
principles of Proletkult club work. Od-_
However, the majority of all votes against _
two in plenary session was adopted =
resolution of the club section, I recommend,
desiring the Club Department of Proletkult to become -
“managerial and technical-assistant- |
central center for workers' clubs in the city -
Moscow." And.
There was another question that caused excitement -
current debate, this is a question about the so-called -
known, “professionalism”. Here we outline |
there were two currents that were beforeeta-
included two speakers. One of them -
Comrade Roslavets pointed out that to create -
niya workers-actors, writers, music- -
comrades, not only those who have fully mastered the technology.
some modern art, but having developed
for themselves a broad socialist, pro-
letarian worldview - necessary
liberated 06060 talented studio students
from factory work and transfer -
give them scholarships, ' th

Specialization in the field of art or \
sciences are just as legal as in the region -
military affairs, etc. The transition “from the machine -
to a desk or easel" no.
can destroy the proletariat by sucking
© milk of the malery of class instinct. =
It was noted in the debate that, rejecting the si- —
theme of fellows, Proletkult not ©м0- |
can create those central studios, stu ^
high-type diy, necessity x0- |
of which the students themselves are acutely aware. —
Co-rapporteur comrade Pletnev, saw in that
com polyom “separation from the machine” serious
danger to the purity of that very pro-
Tara culture, which must be forged
to hang out in the studios. What is important here is not so much -
separation from the working environment (it can also be
be), how much is the gap from production =
nbo just in the process of production ©0-
is created that special psychology which 9t-
distinguishes the proletariat from all other classes. —
Becoming a scholarship holder
can perfectly master the technology
kind of art, its form, but creative =
Such a studio student will inevitably lose his property =
its class identity. }
Completely denying, thus, ‹pro-

feosionalism", t, Pletnev, recognized one-
However, it is necessary to “put the proletarians-
artists in conditions conducive to development
Vitiu was their talent. This can be achieved
by reducing their working hours
up to 4-6 hours a day, extending annually
special holidays, etc.

A complex and important question about “professional
nalism" is, so far, little different
worked theoretically. And Conference
chose quite the right path, refusing
from immediate permission in principle
answering this question, proposing to pose it"for a wide discussion in the workers' press
organizations." and

But, not wanting to slow down the work of Prolet-
cult for the organization of central studios,
The conference recognized that it was only possible
reducing the value of the working day for the most
talented proletarians - artists, but also
“their complete liberation from factories
professional work and becoming scholarship recipients.”

In sectional sessions of the Conference
the next upcoming tasks were planned
dachas for work in various departments of Pro-
letkult. So, the Fine Arts Section
Arts spoke in favor of establishing test
the greatest connection of the Department of Fine Arts
arts with trade unions, art
use of workshops - laSoralurie formerly
then the Stroganov School for the needs of that

In the music section I recognize the need
we will begin to organize a central
choir and orchestras, which must serve
Living the foundation for the future of the symphony
orchestra; familiarize the proletariat with both
The finest examples of individual music
creative creativity (in the ideal ‘isul-
Institute), and with samples of collective na-

creativity.

The theater section spoke in favor of not-_

slow organization of the central drama
Tichesk studio and performance in ra-
dressing up of the Proletkult of the important TV
ral room. In addition, for other
In the plenary session, report etc.
Kerzhentsev (“About the proletarian theater”). Con-
The Federation adopted a resolution recommending
Telling drama studios to work
10 creation of a “comprehensive theater of mas-
‘new action’, which would include in the
organization of folk festivals, tor-
celestial processions, etc., to be carried out at

139

to them

23

theatrical productions the principle of collective
great creativity and collaboration © mu-
linguistic, literary and lively students
Diami. y!

The conference provided a number of practical insights
directors and literary publishing department
lu Proletkult: creation of a criticism studio,
development of types of proletarian libraries,
publication of reference books, catalogues, collections,
selected works of proletarian writers
Sateley, etc. p.

In generalthe work of the Conference showed
chyu, despite all the weaknesses of the organizational
connection with the working masses, the idea of Pro-
letcult, have won a strong place among
di Moscow proletariat. It was already from-
it is noted that in combat at the same time prin-
fundamental issue - about relationships
Proletkult with the Department of Public Education
The meeting supported the resolution of the report -
chika from the Executive Bureau.

It was accepted with great unanimity
you are making decisions on the howls of other frosts, and
before the elections to the new presidium, the unified
a resolution was passed publicly recognizing that
"the daily work of the Executive Bureau
Moscow Proletkult in general and as a whole
proceeded in the spirit and direction of cultural
demands of the broad proletarian masses."

According to the new regulations on Proletcul-
those, the Conference elected 9 comrades, who
who should form the presidium *) and in
at the same time join the Proletkult Council
along with representatives from the regional Pro-
Letkulyuw and production - vol.
unities, _

Only © the creation of these regional and, in
the first head - factory Pro-
letcults the work of the Council will become possible,
and that strong and close organization will be established
national connection with the lower classes, which is up to
so far it has not been possible to consolidate,
Moscow Proletkult.

The task of organizational building,
thus moves forward into the first ole-
In fact, from its successful implementation there will be
depend only on the energy of the new pre-
zidium, but also on the degree of activity, co-
which will be demonstrated by all the members of Colferontia on
places—in trade unions, va
factories and factories.

-*) During elections both to the Presidnum and to the re-
the entire list was passed through the vision committee,
proposed by the communist faction.

what's wrong
LITERATURE DEPARTMENT.

_ Verhaeren

We know that comparing these two
names will cause but one grin. Some will take into account

210 like skill, others will say
“The self-confident one has flown away”! Let tk.
We know that our 0.0 is
cannot help but cause bewilderment

nia. Indeed. Odin is a poet of genius
our turbulent era of rapid times and -
tiya of kaitalism,with amazing ‘ila you-
who revealed in his immortal verses ka, and-
the talistic world, its furious extension >,
his struggle. The other one is just above
or the literary path, few people have known
ny (except for proletarians) pset - worker. For
for the nervous ones - volumes of poetry. for the second - skinny
Book of poetry and prose. I wish I could
ion under the same conditions, no spillover
There will be no anger, comparisons, parallels.
et. The values ​​are not too equal.

We think that further developments will be easy...
skill. Here, let’s just make a reservation that
we cannot imagine comparing Versarch and Ga-
‹teva as ports, for it would be
funny, if nothing else. On? interested -
and this is where our main focus is
extraction, - motives of creativity, Verharna
n Gasteva. And this, we dare to think, will not
devoid of interest for very mi. gee, I think-
speaking and talking about proletarian culture.

Proletarian noesia originates in prose
and the storm of the greatest revolution. Golevo ru-
concerned with those events does not allow for horror
calmly look at what you-
moved by the revolution, because it is necessary not to think, but
to create, not to think, & to act. A
at the same time, even in the whirlwind of events,
knew that part 0 was put forward by the revolution,
extremely necessary in the name of creative power

E and resp. RE, SI

and Gastev.

revolution 'and klaes, who creates it, -—pro-
letharialal

Critical attitude towards the work of Gro'
Letzrehih artists, critical. cat "puppy"
bourgeois artistic culture © =
our point of view is unconditionally -
task of the moment. The element of creativity -
should be brought into the channel of calm, -
strict criticism. And Kah is hardly a believer -
pag on this path we consider layers -
Shuy article. m

Literature and literature before the revolution
era (early 20th century) are characterized
two basic features. On the one side; .
crisis of art, distortion of new things, for -
the birth of new trends disrupts sp050y = -
village treatment of bourgeois creativity.e.va. In boo |
In the juissic world, a sharp breakdown is planned. —
Literature, poetry will soak up the appearance? —
motives for disappointment in life
come on, waites: ie: rka ra tu moly _
sensitivity, cult of the body, unbridledness. tee.
Poets and artists deny life. E
here - a passion for tassels. Awarded _
new trends, modernism, Futurism and pro-_
many isms, 9t0—0 ‘97a pysh-—
a great flourishing of individualism, movement on’ _
lines pagmnie about spr:tivleniya. Require a-
of the bourgeois world, captured by the frenzied
at the rapid pace of capitalist life and am looking for
anything “fresh”, please _
you, who are able to overcome the pressure © ru’ _
pressing life, pushes the artist out of it -
the path of searching for something new in an idea, but at the same time -
combating the conditions that encourage
values of forms, and on the path of answers, d -
those who are light from struggle, creative and old. =
silt of wild simplification of forms, striving neither> To _

B

uk

primitivisiu. Art has lost ‘under ©o-
battle ground. Those who opposed b, rzhuaz-
around the world in political and economic
the struggle between the power of the proletariat and democracy,
have not yet developed the weapons of their culture,
antidotes against corrupting influences
bourgeois art.

But, at the same time, a number of
debtors who were not satisfied with the bourgeois
Geographic art. This artists "Bo-
by God’s grace,” they could not satisfy
to be overwhelmed by the motives and forms of the falling drill-
zhuaz art, They are in painful
the struggle with ourselves, with our inner

_ the visible world, they were not looking for “new” paths,

But they were looking for “new” forms in art
new forces that they could
lean on your ‘creativity.

Their quests are renewed but they are
the logical premises that gave rise to the idea
rock, hopelessness and individualism, and
or the desire to understand the dynamics of the force of increasing
a lot of commonwealth, find why life and
the artist's work are placed in the same
stipulated. The idea of materialism is expressed in
tosiu of artistic thought, and a number of artistic
‘catch, leaving the community, and their ma. sy, at-
goes to the study of catalytic
the events and struggles of the Claesovs
® capktalieme.

Sleeping forces, the most active of them—
proletariat, attracted them by their anger for-
Dim, distinctly host to prospects, masowls
tetonism and “time is confident in itself,”
Yehoyh sith. Klazoovaya b.r. 6& proletaria &
and here she did her business. active forces
bourgeois art, the most powerful
In spirit, artists are fighting ©
otinrayushim Mr_m, the yoke of arguing in wide circles
Gtsletarsvi› 1 democratic Mahsah.
But these clothes artists are very far away
\bt report about class thinking. For
(their t Figs. which move the petoria,
Are only petochniksm 13 ® then © © they
worms istye myeli, pogyz go Their indi-
viualisteueskoe convocation is cut off

‚ Class ideas, it essentially remains
Let's get over it.

Individually escaped from
bourgeois teen artists with one foot
still stuck in it. Vikh ezhav and strong captivity
old understandings, despite the fact that mugis
of them have stepped far ahead of their
old idols.

But in their creativity there is a “class”, value

No. 4 HORN.

25
the central place in it is occupied by the “people”,
“mass”, “crowd”, as a revolutionary development
destructive and creative force O clear
idea of the essence of the class howl>-
would still be far from them. They are captivated by the
manticism of mass movements, "Ma,.s&`, "on-
genus" appears in their tvzr es ve. how about
supreme active force. In a motley crowd,
painted for the fir in one color, they
do not distinguish between the pink trana of the cloes
divisions

Since this is so, it is
chological internal contents"
the lective soul of the class remains for them
locked under seven locks, their creativity.o
- This is external capital. icheskgo m:ra,
street, revolutionary bor.ba, kah “truth”
bloody nickname." Everyday life revolutions, then what
creates these holidays, so diya them, this
‘the head of the pelvis, which is the most honest and
sincere and not trying to fill out.
Need, lack of rights, oppression, regret ‘to oppression’
shadowy and thirst for revenge - these are their motives
creativity. .

Their roar is in this mood, gozotdah-
my horrors of the capitalistic world, for-
often issued 3 "creative revolution io! -
pogo class. And this genus is based in the world
marriages against the proletarians of culture, pre-
tive of proletarian art.

They say; why only the hole itself?riy
should and can create proletarian kulb-
tour? After all, there are artists who came out
from the proletarian environment, but clearly revealed
revolutionary dispositions of the proletariat,
they are revolutionaries in spirit, they have a nursery
the process of development of capitalism, about and material =
sty in your creativity. From here it will be done
a rather unexpected conclusion that the
Tara culture, how selfless your pro-
letar aa, ne imzst samos otli y pr d.
socks. This was confirmed by l-
concept that art is something universal
eternal it. d, pcs. d, '

But criticism of this kind was therefore
similar to the work of poets themselves. and
having left the bourgeois world, deprived
class content. |

Manga critics perceive the world and life,
like a fight. This is objectively indisputable. But
there is struggle and struggle. There are 6 rubles nts o-
nalities. Take the timely howl from the mi-
ditch powers and civil war, to that.
Ruyu leads in international Mainitobe

`
Russian revolution. Goth fight in the eel
national, struggle within capital.ti-
ical society. For us driving and! si-
laml e oh b.r would be t-i classes dvi i-
driven by their class interests. Ob-
society is differentiated, depending on the
the boundaries become clear, br b
encourage. The idea of a class's struggle passed
tariat comes to the fore and ensures
is preparing a dictatorship for him.

For our krigiks with two powerful forces
are egoistically “individual” ill.
group (from cla s.v.e, & um ni, group. by.
vy) interests.

The struggle of the enslaved against the enslaved
bodies, where the strength is, on the side of the ruler,
hence the bright images of the ger’ism of m.s’y,
spontaneous, irresistible force without dzhizhe-
niya, pouring out unconsciously into...
the lines of history. The element, the mass controls -
Xia, or rather is heading towards the plan-

`dimension of rational individual will

leader, hence the idealization of ger: ez, in zhdey,

representing broad masses
two movements.

And such an interpretation is completely understandable. TV®r-
tsy positions of the new world in a huge way. tire-
‘statement of declaring intelligences standing’
between two roadsog, or units, you-
walkers from the people who are PSD huge-
nym ‘on the bourgeois ideal: gy. (Whit-
men.).

Vieshie and’ theoretically clear for 1 of them,
psychologically incomprehensible to them. And more creative
quality—fixation of external manifestations of rebellion
against capitalist oppression.

But the internal springs that move the muscles
themselves, but fit only within the framework of the ha-
scientific provisions, theoretical continuation
ny. In the field of politics and economics nom.k1 it is
perhaps, but in the field of ideology, in the field of
the creativity of culture should be put into it only
impossible within a theoretical framework. 1.si .0-
Logia proletarian mlss educates me in
certain conditions. Brytiz spr share t
itself consciousness. But consciousness, psychology
proletarian in its deepest and mt! g civil-
pom sodrzhn and tr but t of your catch @ iya,
and the creativity of our people is the first step towards
this way. At the same time, the owls are the same
like the existence that determines it, there is
growing, developing in the process
movement is a force that accepts all new and
new psychological outlines.

No. 4

In this process, a huge, still insufficient
accurately assessed, the role was played by the Russian
revolution. What has been up to now
tion, what we talked about: I will! de
it's already there! Creative forces pro-
letariat were revealed by the revolution, and 1v `rch-
the quality of the proletarians results in the determination
inappropriate forms and images, revealing
still contracted for whom, depths
proletarian self-awareness, I classify myself
pure psychology, decisively and quickly
released by the bourgeoisie of the south
peace. This is the great revolution of the proletarian
sky spirit, overturning osshoznye and -
chological foundations of bourgeois culture.
And revealing this spirit, the psychology of the class
only a proletarian artist can give.
And only he gives it now. This nz in me-
whether they want or want to notice all our cries
tics, all doubting the possibility and
the inevitability of the proletarian culture
product" of pure class creativity. This is
maybe it’s not their VIP, & their blindness, for
see through the eyes of the class, `feelings val', live
only those who can tell you about his feelings
isparticle, scarlet, speck of dust Welch-
whom the proletarian collective.

The currently growing creative culture
The strong force of the proletariat in the field of art
went from tension to doystviz and to m0-
tives that this creative
wave and what was missing is revealed
disgusting for aliens from outside who were talking
for the proletariat and those who issued the cover
for the grain, for the deep inner being
ness. This is what will give us the right to put
next to them are the names Verharna and Gat. ow and pu: eat
analysis of the motives of their creativity point to
that which colors, illuminates with great brightness
with light much of what was previously unclear,
controversial both for our opponents and
for Raliyh friends, not quite yet osv‹6e-

who have escaped the captivity of all-human truths.

Verhaeren's creativity is - yafkim
an example of the influence that has had
the development of capitalism on the most sensitive,
the most gifted bourgeois artists
new world,

Here is the cycle of experiences that went through
Verhari. In 1883, Verharn iz”a t his
1st collection. poems of "Flanders". In these
in poetry the poet gives a vivid picture of a calm
sy10i ZhyZai Chlandria.

“In “The Flemings” he led the readers

eq.
No. 4

BURN.

21

life of a Flemish village, Spock Ynay, mz-
long, in which people's lives are almost ome-
sews with the life of domestic animals.
"Cowgirls", gardeners, cows, shepherds,
Borors, sailors, boats - everything is equal to the road.
to the poet. “Thighs”, “udder”, “belly”, “estrus”,
“milking”, “coitus”, “huge”, “fat”,

“meaty”, these words do not leave the pages,

yigi" *). n

Verhaeren is a poet-observer here, he and
philosophizes, he lives in a calm flow
life, and his poetry is like a mirror
the top of a calm over, reflects the action
reality. Social motives are alien
to the poet. This tone was calm, serene
moods change dramatically in subsequent
periods of Verhaeren's work.

In the period 1887-1891, the poet experienced
creates a severe mental crisis. disease,
almost driving him to madness, introduces
In this poetry there are tones of painful melancholy.

“Oh, if only death could come to me!”
exclaims before lifejoyful p et.

‚ Verhaeren in the same period falls into
London. The life of a huge city, the spirit of ma-
tires, heavy tread of industry, “monsters”
melancholy", "factory whistles", "inscription ka-
baka like fate”, cruel pictures
needs, "dark, corroded suburbs
evil" and "... the bank, the soul of the universe" - all
this’ strikes the painfully sensitive singer.
This is a neo-well-fed dovot Flamdria,
this is a terrible nightmare. Verkharya enters
a painful streak. quests, ‘y is declaring
social problems, approaching no.
working outskirts. In his poems there is more and more
h begin to take up more space in the project
public. ‹

The new world that opened before the pset,
attracts him to herself, and in his poem-
and in “Otility” he breaks away from the past,
although he still doesn’t know where to go.

“And the masts creak and the sails crack,
slave myego,

“He tears the lcor...

“Drunk with lightning—flying into the ocean...

“What unknowns is he striving for?

“For what awakenings?

“To what beyond? Which ones?

captivity

an inventory

*) Valery Bryusov. Preface to the collection. poem.

185

“Under what earthly horizon?”
But the poet is already far from his past.
“... WHAT I considered to be my reason,
“The torch rises powerfully, and the smoke
“Swirling on an abandoned pier.
"Otiliegie."

and from here begins another Verharn, gesi-
al poet of the capitalist world; `
Bamkir, tribune, Mags uprising, mutiny,
guillotine, struggle city" and villages, ve-
the mighty power of capital, Nnagara of gold,

` his power over the world, all this finds bl--

the best expression in forged, kah stasny
blade, ringing verses of Verhaeren. Oz already
understood the basics of capitalism, they are clear to him
its tendencies. In the wonderful poem “3e-
lotto", dating back to 1910, he went. Jurassic

“Oh, gold! You are the connection of people! On
moment
"By breaking their union, you throw them into

,

"But you, in the end, are their pledge

unity,

“Let’s say that life is based on you

build!

and he gives picture after picture of cali-
static world, bare of the immense
scope. And here, in this strip
creativity of the great poet, we wanted
I would like to note that Verhaar gaveand what's left
it is unclear to him in this world of gold and
blood, suffering and struggle.

The forces that must accomplish their
judgment on the old world is unclear to him.
Verhaeren does not analyze, but generalizes ©o-
imal concepts.

"The gray-haired blacksmith,
“He believes ardently that evil is inescapable.”

mine,‚
"A vast wave of deep despair
“One day it will turn to another time,
“And the golden lever of the universe! (Blacksmith).

Werhaeren has no class, kah driving re-
military force. In "Kuznets" the gray-haired
old man -

“He knows that the crowd, having raised its head
"(O terrible power, whose bright ray is far
“It sparkles on the brow of solemn rock)
“Suddenly he will snatch it with a merciless hand
“Some kind of new world out of darkness and blood.”
(“Blacksmith”).
28

o 6:9

No. 3

The crowd is the ailo of future achievements,

which the poet expected and foresaw.
In all revolutionary motives Vgr-

Harna we encounter the same generalizations.

"There is no more time

"For intoxicated hearts,

“For the crowd carrying out judgment...
“Crowds of people pass 3% in crowds

next.
“The crowd in front of the entrances of the gloomy city halls.”

"Uprising".

"Solemn evil has crept into the people
snake,

“Having calmed your ocean around the platform
glory,

“The crowd then, like a mother, calling for your
gro5 simple,

“A corpse will be cradled, bloody and without-
head."

"Head."

‚ “Heroes, sages, artists, prophets,
“Everyone is hammering away at the wall of secrets, some with a crowbar,
who hand
“Some came together in a crowd, others - about isoki,
“But the earth already feels different.”
"Cities and Fields."
"Bazzlekir."
_ “The crowd cursed him and everyone submitted to him.”

By the blind “unknown” force of the crowd

guided by the will of the leader, tribune, leading
tollu.

“In it is the secret of the lonely will,
"He who forges the hammers of great valleys."

Who is this tribune, where is he from, what are his

aspirations, where he leads, what
he wants from her and through her, erhari
he knows this. His tribune - in

like the masses,

. that is already great, ‹ that it is given over to stra’tl,
“Without thinking, with all my virgin soul.
“That he himself does not know his last

authorities
“And lightning entrusted to him by fate.
“That he’s all a mystery with the unfound
by decision
"What© head to toe immersed in
for one,
“What is thislazy and stubborn lives by his movement

"And he will die with him."

So risust Verhari struggle in capital
etic ‘mptrg. We won't find him

n——-= bk. B

deep analytical thought, in the direction of:-
interested in the study of psychological pro-
exhausted from that capitalist © but-
vanity, which © such brightness, © such
revealed with amazing power from his demons
mortal verses,

And this only emphasizes his greatness,
as a poet: |

Art does not tolerate lies. Verhari yours
a writer, not a writer. What he doesn't know.
doesn't feel like an elusive mirage
floats before his mental gaze, according to
did not ferment’ in his fiery soul, he
doesn’t try to squeeze it into at least blg-
verse verse

Verhari - hundreds of future revolutionaries, poet
broad and powerful generalizations. But he has
there is no clarity in the presentation of the forces preparing
great explosions, V-aharn toorich-
juices understood the need
these explosions, but did not feel that wasp
new force on which the world relies
great achievements, And at the end of the note-
riata, but there is one on 10d. There is no that tribune.
who knows what he wants for someone
whose tasks, paths and goals are clear.

This tribune put forward with clarity, for -

allowing even the blind to see, Russian-
Russian revolution represented by the proletariat. And,
maybe, maybe the last one will "eat p'ind" to squeeze
honor of a new word in art in the second world
holding and form.

Here we believe it will become clear, then
we have placed the names a and
Gasteva.

Gastin is a young poet. And less pay
more fleeting than many of his fellows.

ii.

There is a lot of Verharia in his work, but
in Gastev we find’ something that is not there and ›.
could have been at Verhaeren's. All

Gastev is permeated with one common ilea. then
awareness by the proletariat that it is not
slave of capital, & creator, not just theoretical
what must be strictly whole, unified
nym, but integral and to the point. to deep

such recesses of consciousness. What was dis-
dusty, 10, what was hidden about how
the force of a volcano, compressed by the earth's crust,

broke through and resulted in rough, harsh
verses, less, nvizmeriho less artistic
government, heat at Verhaeren's, (godrezhanie e
may be higher than its object). at

But the internal content, about the new mod-

f_

s 3: &35
No. 4

tive, red thread, specifically proletaf-
skoe, what Verhaeren did not have, found
its clear expression in the creativity of Ga-

There is no spiritual work for the proletarian. He
frees his consciousness from that curse-
of labor, which is inherent in it at first
high stages of its development.

Factory life is a symbol of creativity,
a symbol not only of the future, but of the present
already victories. :

Horns.

“When the morning beeps sound at work,
sneeze outskirts ^
This is not a call for captivity at all:

This is the song of the future."

In this simple phrase, repeating it with
regularity ptch”och, put vchdit great

some basis for the unity of the proletarian forces,

“We ko, yes, ra Ogala V ‚00 ah m:ster-

skikh and started working in the mornings in; miscellaneous

time.
“And now in the morning, at eight o’clock they shout
beeps for a whole million,
“Now we are starting minute by minute
together. ‚
"A whole million take hammers in one and
same moment
“Our first blows thunder together,
“What are the horns singing about? at
“This is a morning hymn to unity!

(“Beeps”).

The plant is not only the grave of workers,
in the inquisitorial, eternal torture of
letarian body and spirit. There's creativity there
creativity not only of everything that
the man is seen jealously guarding himself
nature. Overcoming salt and weight loss
cabbage soup of the earth, conquest of distance, conquest
air, grinding of elements in mathematics
tics from fozmuly, forging them in steel -
new straitjacket—e.o. Greek military
th victory of labor, mighty power, invincible

his strength. Ez here, don’t be distracted
valuable concept, & real hammer blow,
the steps are heavy for a year. Arrow manom tra, from-
marking the steam pressure, marks the voltage
the strength of the stoker, the miner's ra.ogu, and the mazhi-
nist who spoke with a steely voice, oh we have
distance. In Gastev’s work, he expresses

136

BURN.

m —=———————-—-———

you.

there is this great self, a collective self, in which
all efforts merge together,
Zheniya and all thoughts. The focus of the world's
troubles and pride, the face of the class,realized
yourself, as a single creative force.

The plant is not a curse, the car is not an enemy,
the sky clouded with smoke is not threatening
naya cloud. |

The moet plant does not lament, & opens
in your soul there is great love for him.

“I fell in love with you, iron rumble
“Steel and stone identical ringing”
“Lavu... Restless, rebellious fire
“Machine hymns, their ten tone.
(“I fell in love”)

“I’m going to the wild as if I were going to a holiday, like a

`("Voreta")

The process of work captivates the poet

“A black waterfall will rush into the then-
people's mouth. Strongmen gate without fear
ha, without blinking, they take it, swallow it, swallow it.

‚feast.

| A hundred, two, three...
A thousand... Another...

‚': And more... and more...
We're in the yard. .

— The overshadowing power of iron! '

Just entered and is already full, subdued,
completely shackled by the elements of thunder,
movement, light.

..Hands are burning, they can’t do nothing
I'm stuck without a hammer, without work...

The overshadowing power of iron will give birth to love for
the great process of creativity.

For Gastev progetarium:

"The iron d-mon of the human century
soul, with nerves like steel, with muscle
like a rail.

Not a single word of sorrow © hard lot
proletarian, that tah is inherent in “tuets for
proletariat,” not a single tearful one. lines,
no at Gastov” Pto 1 m 1 “Uzhnya 00-
sorry, he is taller than them. He is not a slave, but yours
rap, O 9diR.L bgady. ano sN.a vNuTrev-
This fire merges with the world of steel, fire,
smoke that surrounds him. Gastev razvanchi-
revives old thoughts, deepens the psyche.
ical golyatiya, moisture" positive
new to what we considered to be distinctive,

“They say that iron is a soulless machine.
cold and dispassionate.
<: 4

Wrong. It's a familiar old thought
and she has no place in the new world.

The poet says that when he rises,
with the crane of the carriage the latter strives
fall. We must hurry to advance the edges,
‚. but you need calm in order to avoid sudden
movement, the carriage did not fall.

“And when the carriage, in the light of the upper fo-
Naray, like a bird in free flight,
rushed to the far edge of the plant - all
the water grew, became light in the shower-steel-
a mirage.

As I see now - comrades inbelow
they fear with me, they rejoice

traffic troubles, I hear them on-

they call my faucet “balyushka”, & about
they all said together: “it will withstand the
lubchik!”

Victory... ^:

And it was impossible to understand where they ended
chants of the workers and the meta-

the personal trembling of a giant plant.”

Metal, machine are spiritualized in creativity
the quality of the proletarian Ioet. They are merged into
united with difficulty, in one steel container,
existing walls fencing us off from the world
ra of the future. '

But labor is the need of everyone
catch and love in the process of the pond
is not characteristic of the proletarian alone. Energy,
accumulating in a person must be
dress up in motion. It couldn't be any better

For Gastev, the labor process is not only about
discharge process accumulated energy, pla-o-
measuredly aimed at achieving benefits
no effect. It could also be fyudnevol-
nom. For him, the labor process is a process
struggle, tempering the proletarian will. And
our struggle, the struggle for political and eco-
nomic "dominance" has its basis
howl it is the monolithic unity that lies
heaven and machine. The car, the factory, all the technical
_ This is inseparable from the proletarian.

In his hands this is the first weapon that gives
incredible to him, invincible
force, dynamic force, for which
and there can be no stopping. ‹‘ `

Werhaeren has “natod”, “tslpa” on the streets
“took the golden facades by storm” This is soft
tezh! This is a flash of lightning, a powerful element.

‚the desire to overthrow slavery
for Gastev it does not appear in external
its manifestations: it is deepened into the very

her

sy

the production process where the product is forged
flying psychology.
What was smoldering in the depths of the proletarian
soul, bursts out violently in the words of the poet:
“It’s over! We've had enough of pesei blah-
piety.
And the poet does not call to the street, where “it will rain

stones" near Verhaeren the old ones are destroyed

ke
° 5beat, it’s all the same to die!

Gastev has a deep sense of organization.
bath of strength, awareness, feeling even that
the power that the proletarian will have in the hands
stronger than “rain, hurricane, stones”

Rows and crowds of machines, buzz
fieryoh oven. ups and downs vagru-
women's taps, breathing prokovami
strong cylinders, the roar of gas explosions
WWII and the power of the silent press, here you are
shi songs, religion, music.”

Gastov does not have the old romanticism without
even in his impulses, blind in every
hiya. | Hall:

“We will not rush into these pitiful

the heights that are called heaven. Nobo—‹o-

the building of the idle, the recumbent, the lazy and
timid people. *

Let's head down.

But this is not a fall. This is the call of life
5 earth in the creativity of new life, creative
in honor of those who fell by labor. ;

"Together with fire, metal and gas

ferry we will dig mines, we will drill the greatest in
tunnels in the world, with gas explosions we will devastate
in the bowels of the earth there are unbroken terrible strata"

..The world itself will be a great mess

And “who will stop the flames of a thousand furnaces— .
suns who will ease the pressure and explosions of the
stucco almospheres? Space is rushing...

He can't stand!!! s

When the proletarian absorbed the power

machine, blood and metal juice, in the merge
unity lives with him, oh not a slave, but a master
so. .
’ Slaves hate, blind malice, curse.
te, haste, extinguished under the blow of the lash
hundred owner is a weak force. Slaves can
just rebel.

But the proletariat, as a class, is not a slave.
His struggle is not a thing of the past, not a flash, &
methodical, creative, & therefore unpretentious
Roman movement. This is not an element that
sweeping over the earth, it basks in the sun. _
His class feeling, and burning anger,
GOR t

and the cold contempt of the strong, who is in
knows his power and knows <a higher power
no.

And if there are still rulers on earth, if
epf "Banker" lives, th,

“suppressing all Nyagarami with its ro-
current power, dominates the world of pro-
Lethari, the poet does not throw thunder at his address -

su, and syu with quiet confidence: in lobeda,
the winner now speaks to everyone in power
so

“Continue. gentlemen!

Ovi play and lose millions
‚They are proud and tell each other
speeches, write poems and sing praises

praises
' "Continue gentlemen"!

And howl about the fact that these factories, mountains
coal, roads, it's all theirs, it belongs
lives by it...

They rejoice with joy.
Poet-spanAryan calmly answers

“Continue gentlemen!”

Their power is a ghost, a mirage that dissipates
suffers from the pressure of severe balanosis of labor

And in their movement

..Our first greeting, our first joy.
fireworks for them, burbot for friends, light
lym maltsin.

They feel it. They answer ji-
marriage of the proletarian soul.

...Above the daring storms of cars from-
beat their decisive rhythm:
\We are with you, we are with you!

And the proletarian with calm confidence

says sound

‚ “Without words, without sounds, only in the soul,

we remembered for the last time those who

are displayed on the avenues and instead of spiteful

curses with a smile were thrown at

side:

° “So continue, gentlemen”

"We are together!"

In this calmness there is majestic strength, you
<this is the consciousness of the proletarian we.

For the great catastrophe of the fall of capital
He “calculated the talistic world to the seventh
To and up to a millimeter."

Slaves have no future, but we:
“My yesterday died, my family is rushing
today and the lights of my tomorrow are already beating.
It’s not a pity for childhood to talk about youth
you, & just--- into the distance! \

154

On this path “afar” there are victories and /o-
injuries.

But there are no barriers for the flying forces.
There will be falls, casualties, so what. Cha-
The tough path is not scary. ‹

“On the way there is a river... So we swim!..

“There will be forests... We will penetrate and not:
with your mad march\

Meet 10 We'll take them.

We know it will sting in the chest.

But great with bilyu dakluya! For big
No. the wounds are not terrible.

...let's rush to the farthest heights!

No wings?!
They will be!.. Born... in an explosion of
ardent desires.
Let's go!
"We're coming!"

Tazhov's motives of Gastez's creativity.

This is the poet of “proletarian industrialism”
as he was called. Car fan, mo-
loving her, spiritualizing her. He's forward
Vy brought forward this great awareness of power
proletariat merged into one not only in
production process, but also © him
ourselves. The proletarian is not a slave to the machine, but to its
lord, appendage, & one
with her.

In Gastev, the proletariat blocks co-
battle everything. There is no creative power outside of it. From-
here the proud consciousness of invincibility, the great
frequency of the movement of proletarian forces.

These are not the "people" of Verhaeren, this is not a "throw"
drunk with madness, even if it were holy. This
organized by conscious detail
strength.

It should be noted here that the motives
Gastev's poetry, not an accidental explosion of indie
visual creative layer of Gotentia. We are yu-
We are trying to prove in the future that
Gastev deeply captured the psychology of pro-
letaria, imonto "ndusttialnoto proleta.
riya. And they ate the verhaarn. put
him on the verge of two mars, sai a great poet
through the thorns of his individualistic
of consciousness came to awareness and creativity
the expression of the power of the kalital as a single
howl of the driving force, then Gastev is the first
vaya stutsev into the poetry of the new world. Verhari
saw work as a mechanically creative process
cess Gastev gave it to us in all its depth
the highest content of creativity psycho-
logical unity, the proletariat. Vo rkharch
could not see the depths of the proletarian's soul
32

BURN.

knowledge, and it is not in this poetry. \Kalitali-
the stic world found in the letter the genius-
a great spokesman. But Verhara passed by
proletariat, as a class, as a great unity
no we. | ‘

Gastev, emerging from the factory smoke and
the roar carried away the soul of the class, gave without
side inner essence. Let him in
there is still a lot of uncertainty in creativity:
communication, others follow him. he stays
“the champion” of proletarian poetry, indicating
telepath.

This is what gives us the right to put a number of

house of the names of the world genius and proletarian |

poet.
Verhaeren encapsulates the cycle of capital
stic poetry. Gastev opens a new one.
That's why Gastev has so much from
Verhaeren, this synthesis gives new
higher and in form, which is rough in Ga-

steva and unartistic at times. But behind him.

others are coming, forging this, we, then a single “face”
poetry of the proletarian, in which
majestic beauty will be reflected in his world-
your all-encompassing soul, thirsting for everything
great achievements,

V. Pletnev.

War in the works of Maupassant,

1st slaveChvshe, s’ezyo epeoge
une ge|ya1op, C'05% Goei {Ё 4e5
Jehgeev').
‘ biu 4e Maprazzat.

“A trend is not an achievement”
said I. S. Turgenev. In this moutho
great artist this literary
the covenant sounds especially long and
has deep meaning. I. S. Turgenev
was a social writer by profession
property, he. gave broad social
paintings of his time, revealing
social conflicts of the era. Quite
no one can renounce subjectivity
maybe. It is especially difficult to relinquish
depending on his views and moods
class. But a true artist, by virtue
of his talent, will not allow distortion
or ‘derogation of artistic truth.
In addition, its subjective illumination
nie serves only as a means to unite
and summarize the artistic processing
tanned material, but by no means will it be
imposed on the reader. Subjective illumination
a true artist should not
It’s important to fall in line with the trend, because
this is not the goal the artist strives for,
and it is not the trend that achieves it
nim. a - artistic truth, me na-

1) “Patriotism is another religion, and it
germ of war." Gune de Maupassant,

ruined by iarochita, deliberate
thought. If the reader himself, by some
only artistic images,
det 'to a favorite, hidden thought
author, then the goal of artistic production is
the result has been achieved. 'Gendency
may only alienate the reader.

From this it follows that
dozhink should not in his production
efforts to pursue certain ideas. No,
should. An artist without ideology is without
meaningful, uninteresting, bad

` artist. But the question is.

on how to carry them out. After all, they are needed
carry out in such a way as to produce
the reader is greatly impressed. A
meanwhile, biased coverage of the
erases this impression and achieves
completely the opposite result. Here
why is the lack of bias evident
is the main requirement and conditioned
viem artistry. But the skill is
fix the reader with his ideologue, no
resorting to a tendency is a skill
there is a secret of talent, a secret of art
a lot of creativity. This article, on
specific analysis of the stories of Maupas-
san, written on the topic “French-Prussian-
"war" and under the Judicial Osve.tse-
nim. Withtrying to get to the essence
this secret.

mo.

No. 4 GR V. 33

re:

Towards future descriptions of contemporary
E era, the best epigraph would be the words
° va G. Flaubert, said by him in one of
- letters to Georges Sand during the fraico-
° Prussian War: “What a horror! Stacho-
It’s a shame to be human.” Flaubert,
‘survived the horrors of wounds in his declining years-
_Co-Prussian War and`Even accepted

m
8
no
eo
g

b
> in our active participation, was far from
_ thoughts of blaming only one side
° in barbarism, savagery and the so-called
- our, “atrocities” that accompany non-
 any war is avoidable. His sorrowful
° Exclamation. equally treated as
_ To the Germans and to the French. France
_ 1871 was more ruined, depressed
®—m oppressed, the France of 1914, the more
’ Even less, he knew how to take war to his own
°my height of amazing events is out
| his <own patriotic
’ state of health \ITyyu last does not esle-
| I sew. Deeply experiencing the bloody co-
_ of being, he. this great old man knew how
° Remain the same clairvoyant from the start
| wearing to historical tests
© 33oya homeland, as he has always been
_In his majestic works.
| Feeling, "then oh it becomes, in my own way,
_ By his own admission, “evil”, he is a macho
_dil that this is the evolution of the human soul-
shi is the most terrible last-
the consequences of war.
"1 But not only Gustav Flaubert
’t managed to remain human in that emotion
| clairvoyant and good, bright will.
his great disciple remained akim
| ``huy de Maupassant, who, also boo
_ Duchi participant in the Franco-Prussian war-
| Hey, I left a lot of truthful and
_ sincere stories. Rereading those
_before these graceful, sad stories,
`you are amazed at how different
the luminaries of our modernity and
foreign literature from luminaries
that time in their attitude to the war
’ Che. Although I only touch on stories
Maupassant, but about him.— 1 © Flaubert so-
well—we can say that ‘they were
alone in the literature of that time.
_It’s not the same now. Skavdalny manifesto
`Iemitsky scientists, false patriotic
(Eliyania and xartistic and prop

158 A

products of our luminaries, mixed
with ‘mediocrities and yellow leaders’
press, lectures by French professionals
moat at the Sorbonne, whose programs
during the continuation of the war were timed
to imperialist interests is
general blindness swept the entire crowd
pu world talents and geniuses, among
of which not a single trace of the world has survived
logo of a face not disfigured by malice
and hatred. Never before has science and
art was not such an arena
struggle of zoological passions, as in
present time. Never before spiritual
The “leaders” of humanity did not show such
whom moral decline and oblivion
the most “eternal values”, the only
the heralds of which they consider themselves
hoist. :
Modern world war is not |
only the bankruptcy of the capitalist
regime and the collapse of our moral and social
everyday life, but also, as a consequence,
it also marks the catastrophe of the ideological
logic ‘those that have been used so far
It's time to be considered the privileged
spiritual leaders of modern man-
of eternity. They have now shown themselves in
"present form". The horrors are over
the war was not concluded at all
those acts of the enemy parties,
with which the newspapers of all the enemy were full
blowing states. These horrors are completely
were 420 milim. gun. German-
tsev or 75 centimes. gun by a Frenchman,
not in armored cars and
tanks, not airplanes, throwing
bombs on civilians, how is it de-
the Germans lalied in Paris, Warsaw, Lod-

Zi and other cities, and the French and An-

Glitschians in German and Turkish cities
duh. They did not even involve burning
near Louvain or in the Reims region
sa or in the attempt on Moshe Bata de
Raz (Cathedral of Our Lady of Narizh).
They also do not consist in the quantity
of corpses, cripples, destitute wives,
mothers and sisters, in robbery and dis-
villages and towns were destroyed:

arable land and forests. The horror of a modern howl

we lie in the ideological lack

mission and the moral decline of our high

co-cultural and civilized all-
ka, whose learned authorities

|

\/ "Vewith exhaustion, even melancholy,” says the Frenchman, that he was an eyewitness and teaching

just didn’t elevate their powerful “M-etsche RI” and others. I intend to remain |
Tholos against these “horrors of war” is updated only in the latest stories.
but were their ideological instigators- First of all, in these stories, semi- |
lyami, encouragers and patrons. [in true Prussian image _
The horror of the era we are living through. V! officership, Maupassantian character
that is, “one becomes ashamed | the tics of which remain untouched
to be human,” for. that in our time | new and unbroken force to pa-.
left human? Capitalism-| these days. 7Cruel hatred does not
ical civilization turned out to be based on | Maupassant saw the Prussian officers and,
noi on a barbarian foundation and deep | we must give him justice, the law-
boko tenacious y nkte. | there was no hatred, it was natural
The name of this latter is “patriot- | his anger!

ism". ‘Involuntarily one has to wonder { His story “M-ne EIB even after our
The question of whether this is really such a truly terrible day will remain classy.
a noble and holy feeling, which is a significant contribution to that literature, which...
generates and sanctions horror, the latter has paid its due, is paying and will
called "war". Isn’t it wrong for a person to repay the most shameful phenomenon that has
eternity, the overwhelming majority of which were controlled by “Prussian Junkerism”. Neither in
which consists of the working masses, in one country it did not work out “such
trap, allowing himself to be fooled by this disgusting crossbreeding - garbage
heavy and so long-lasting drunkenness of the feudal era with “superhuman”
nim? Is it really modern human’s swagger and limited self-
The example of this war showed the opinion. modern - imperialist
miracles of technology to the same extent in the German bourgeoisie as in Germany. Prus-
what strength of his courage, heroic ‘officers, artistically recorded
and reserves of self-sacrifice, not stolen by literature, give to the public
standing to throw offthis dope and the psychological expression is why
call once and for all to account those combinations. It would seem that it’s not without reason
who gave birth to him? The fact that Maupassai:

+

Rit already quoted Flaubert. We need to Nazicom the Franco-Prussian campaign. FROM
hope that patriotism will not come out - a brief analysis of his stories, we UV
victor ‘from the entrustment they place upon ourselves, however, that he is a witness of the objective
tasks: we are already present explicitly, and in this last respect e
his exhaustion. no one tried to unravel the global carnage. Stay
highlighted his last historical-objective in the depiction of his Na-
sk mission, and in the fire of guns, the ar tional enemy, directly ›©
sparkling of all the swords of the world, an enemy is born upon touching it, who
this antipode—love for everything has ruined half of France, taken
eternal 063 differences of races, tribes Paris, terrorized the population, g0a-
g nations! beat and burned everything in its path is +7
| _nominal for a bourgeois French then
p. time! And yet, nothing can stop you
`Maupassai dedicated the Franco-Prussian lo Maupassant to give a bright, original
Zoina has a lot of stories. They can be expressed and boldly artistic
divided into two parts: 1) stories, and the definition of patriotism, as a result
presenting episodes, the interest of which he came to the conclusion; < Tatrio`
lies solely in the image \Gtizm is another religion, and it is” |
horrors of war and 2) stories about the germ of war.” This is his social” |
Forykh was given a clear and definite artistic merit. |
|
|

characteristics of patriotism, how he pro- Let's start with the story “M-eye RIH.
is in the mood of various things. This story contains several
food classes. This category includes Prussian officers. They are all more accepting”
A number of stories belong to "Pyshka", a Prussian-feudal aristocrat
Tin: regiment commander Count von Vorl-
| Mr. his assistant Baron von Kehl-
zeniggein and three junior officers, from
of which one is Marquis Vchlhelm von Hey-
'rich, - little blond.in"ik, arrogant
WHY, cruelcue with soldiers, unforgiving
To the vanquished and flaring up like
gunpowder." He is sh-eye Fifi, pro’
So called "for his flirtatious manners,
For a thin waist, as if pulled into
Corset, for a pale face with barely a piercing
fallen mustache, as well as acquired
shadowy habit of expressing one's extreme
_Whose contempt for things and people is French
With the Tsuz exclamation Y, Y dops, pro-
Wearing it with a slight whistle.”
| These are real barbarians, for whom
Breaking, crushing, smashing is not
Only physical, but rather spiritual
neediness. No work is used
The arts can't stop their face

`grow to the pointless and senseless-

` MU destruction for the sake of destruction, ne
° Can arouse their human sympathies
c. to beauty, to the beautiful and graceful
`Vomu. Their arrogant, arrogant and
_The greedy contempt for the enemy endures-
Xia them on the ethereal and ‘defenseless
| (© the eternal world of beauty, to which
| \X souls and hearts are as alien as
` Alien to all high, intangible
| The values of human creativity

Opi settled in the ancient growth
\n the castle d'Youville, decorated with gentle
marble, thin flanders
r ooya crystal mirrors, hu-
_ Solemn portraits in gilded
‹ frames, precious _ panels
’ “a collection of paintings and watercolors of all
fiters, Kltai vases, Saxon-
_with toys, trinkets from
` some painted marble, layered
Th matte bone, Venetian style
Glass logo. How did you behave in this
‘in the red castle these “noble”
_`The founders of the ancient feudal. ari-
`Rocracy? “The mosaic table was from-
Full of liqueurs, burned with cigars. izre-
Zan pe

rin crystal mirrors in the dining room
the castle d'Youville were pierced by bullets,
Flanders wallpaper is cut with ular sa-
underwear and vibels in rags. Three family
new portraits on the walls: a warrior dressed
in iron armor, cardinal and president

They smoked long porcelain pipes, and

=

young lady with tight breasts
was decorated with a pair of huge ones. Usov,
induced by coal. Old oak steam
the chum was trampled, as if in a tavern.
Passion was especially noticeableyu to co-
the crash of sh-eye Fifi. "His bright
and the hard eyes were exactly looking for the object
for destruction." Ov invented the "explosive"
you." This was his favorite time
attraction. Here is one of these explosions:
"The little marquis went to the hall,
to find something to charge.
He returned with a tiny teapot from
pink Chinese porcelain and floor=
niv it with gunpowder. put a piece in the nose
tinder; then he lit the tinder and finally
I took this infernal machine into the hall. Ver-
rushing to the dining room, he 5a-
created a door behind him. Vee, standing, waiting
whether with smiling faces in-with expression
the expression of childish curiosity in features;
just an explosion shook the castle, oops
Everyone rushed to the door at once. 'Malemu-
Azel Fifi entered first and into. from
captivity clapped his hands in front of, Vance-
swarm of terracotta, lumivie xia. however-
no, heads. Everyone picked up the pieces
porcelain, marveling at the quaintness of
scraps produced by the explosion, search =
causing new damage and challenging
some, considering them a consequence of pre-_*
blazing destruction. Major © ete-
looked around with a scrupulous look at the ruined -
Nero-style hall dotted with
breaking works of art; Oya
was the first to leave, good-naturedly
tag: t
—“This time it went well,” ›
High occupation!

aristocratic
And how do their descendants differ—nowadays?
some German ones. A?

“Izvetsiakh V. i.e.
read in Etsia V. Ts.. EK» nd

all furniture ——

with a sharp knife of an officer - win - the results of the battle

the body that was tearing apart the elegant table in the Jufitsera collection

: Numbers and drawings on the discovery of one’s own fortress: taken out
`Chvennoy lazy fantasy.' Lerevya ^^

"The rivers were cut down for pushing furnaces. Sta- 1) No. 71 (563); 1019 ®

36

BURN.

all the books from the rich library disappeared
flows of the officers' meeting and, in general,
everything that was possible was taken away
take out and seize. The Germans left
in memory of his stay in the cre-
post only dirt and such neglect -
something completely impossible
imagine. Except for the impassable
dirt in all rooms, it remains
there was also an endless variety of wines
beer bottlestrees of the most varied
figurative companies and brands. All this did
fortress premises similar to
some huge tavern, after not-
ordinary drinking party with a huge number
participants. For a whole week already 70 people

don-don", just one time to
just laugh. He asked for it
with feline grace, with feminine tenderness
with tenderness, and a voice as gentle as that of
of a mistress in the grip of an extravagant
desire." r

But the commander did not yield” and sh-&e
Fifi to console himself had fun
the above-described explosions in the castle
d'Youville. r

Despite the fact that the luxurious castle
d'Youville provided enough material
for, so to speak, pleasure
destruction, nevertheless, still
it was boring. The captain thought of arranging
have a party, sending for the ladies from the pub-

century is working on cleaning the premises, personal home. He distributed them

but there is so much dirt that there is no end to the edge
apparently this purge.”

Maupassant’s observations remain ter”
true and true for our times
me, separated from his era half-
century! Everything changes to

Despite its cruel and insolent
great contempt for the population, Prussian
the cadets showed up. nevertheless. condescendingly
activity only for a friend
the priest of the village where he was
Mock d'Unville. This priest is...

|

between officers. Jewish Rachel, mo-
petite brunette with black eyes,
like inkblots, with an upturned
nose, went to the graceful marquis
- me Fifi.

M-ene Fifi gave vent to his passion

light, to,
except for the White Guard psychology! \Training, for which, as he sex-

Gal, a suitable opportunity presented itself.
“Suddenly Rachel choked, coughed,
crying to the point of tears and exhaling smoke from his nostrils.
The Marquis, under the pretext of a kiss, blew
a stream of tobacco smoke into her mouth. She doesn't
got angry, didn't say a word, but

hall, a kind of resistance to the Prussian- looked intently at ‹<your region-

to the invasion: since the lo-
the Germans appeared, the bells stopped
call. was his way of expressing
protest against the enemy peace-
nogo, silent, the only one
talked aboutn, worthy priest,
a minister of meekness, not blood. And that's it
residents of Ten Versts all around praised
showed the firmness and heroism of Abbot Shan-
Tavuan, who dared to speak openly

giver with an expression of ‘anger, flaring-
hidden in the depths of her black eyes.”

But sadistic passion flared up.
He hasn't seen a woman for too long,
his ex was tormented for too long
inaction predatory grace, nervously
sometimes speaking, sometimes hiding her
claws oh

“M-eye Fifi sat Rachel down with him
on my knees, and, gradually getting excited,

to reveal and maintain general mourning ‘then madly kissed pitch black,

by the stubborn silence of his church.
"The commander and his officers laughed
over this harmless heroism, and so
how the whole district showed obedience and
'submission, then the youngsters willingly tolerated it
a silent expression of patriotism.
only little Marquis Wilhelm
„(sh-eye Fifi) wanted to force.

curls of hair on your neck, inhaling the time
me from time to time through her open bodice
dresses aroma and the southern warmth
body, then, seized by brutal ferocity,
esteem and desire for destruction, he.

One pinched her through her dress and forced her

scream in pain. Sometimes he's cranky o0-
he grabbed her and pressed her against the cab, as if wanting

cola ‘to call. He was infuriated by the condescension - to merge with her and, passionately clinging

ity, the commander to the priest, and he
belittled his boss every day

lips to the fresh mouth of a Jewish woman, for a long time, until
loss of breath, kissed her. But suddenly

let him do it once——^one—he bit her lip so hard that

what are the charms

sweat:

7
№4_

BURN.

m to anei-a— - o< | baat in

37

NI aa yy =_=

a trickle of blood ran down her chin
ku for the corsage.
’ “She looked carefully again
rubbed him in the eyes and said: '
- You'll have to pay for this.
“And, having washed the wound, he began to laugh again -
Sya with a cruel laugh.
“I’ll pay,” he answered,”
Then came the linseed toasts. M-eye
Fifi said:
Everything is ours - both France and France -
Threat and forests. and the Fields and the houses of France!
And then he added:
—— “And all the women of France too
ours! 1`
These words led to a bloody initiation
dent. Little RAkhil replied:
<— This... this, this is a lie! Women
France niko! aa does not belong to you
And when the Marquis asked her why
Then she went here, then Rachel answered -
and to him: *
“Me! I! I am a woman, I am a fornicator:
face. This is just for the Prussians.
“She didn’t have time to cum before he gave
slap her. And since he once again
raised her hand, then she, mad with anger,
_I grabbed a small dessert from the table-
new knife with a silver handle and quickly,
“Before anyone could place,
slammed it into the officer's neck, just at
"The hole where the chest begins." a
_ Rakhilch is Jewish. Don't you think
_ It’s strange that it’s the Jewish woman in this
The 'anti-German' story fulfills
city role deeply and heroically
A protesting victim of violence”? Isn't it
‚French is not capable of fulfilling THIS role.
Tsuzhenka? Why Jewish? .
This, of course, is not accidental, because in
true-artistic work
and that is not accidental - and that is precisely why in
This wonderful detail is missing
Oddities. If Maupassant had just...
‘or perform this role for a French woman,
'? the story, for all its truthfulness,
would give a patriotic bias
‘awn. But Maupassant, like the great artist
A liar, even in his Franco-Prussian
Stories, managed to be outside of any shadow-
dents, perfectly understanding and artistically
Feeling with my Czech instinct that
stendency is not attainment”, Zypilo

look at

*

440

would be ‘like this: look, they say, even to the French-
maiden prostitute sposobiya na patriot-
tic feat, to protest the invincible
my national conscience" - even ours
illustrious, thrice corrupt fallen -
what a woman! Maupassant didn't want to
——it would be too cheap and
effective means for such collection
creative artist—to achieve futility
thorough condemnation of the “Germans” by re-
majesty of nobility, great walking and
from the French.
t in one Franco-Prussian story-
ze Maupassant you have nothing like this

› are barbarians, we are noble and great

stuffy. In none of these
of Maupassant's stories, not a single stroke
hom not ‘trying to hint. that "nemlkh"
as a nation, as a race, organically pre-
located to vagreed and therefore
serves as a threat to all humanity, as
tries to prove this to the most serious
in the image of E. Verharn in his article
"?'Acetarpe shiza Me" '(Barbarian
Germany.").

But, besides, it was not part of the tasks
Maupassant to show or prove
at all costs this or that denial
bodily features of the German nation. Mo
passan does not divide peoples into bad ‘i-ho
rich. Nations can be unhappy
but there are not and cannot be bad peoples,
Is it him, one of the noblest
French humanists, it is fitting ‘to-
to say that the Germans are “a people
predominantly zoological
instincts, and therefore worthy of curtailment
destruction and destruction? Maupassant was not
blinded by neither time nor psychology
the class to which he belonged, nor
national prejudices, and this
happens extremely rarely, and
as long as Maupassant presented
influences in this regard “literary
case", he has for the proletarian
critics are of particular interest. {

yar of opposition: “German”
o.

_And the estate is therefore extremely convincing
its characteristics are long-lasting:
ny parts of the German nation. Entirely,
without any reservations or restrictions,
can be accepted as its characteristics
ka Prussian Junkerism - its pampering
depravity, decadence, savagery, depravity

— ————

38°

passion for unlimited power, inclination
hate vandalism and all those patho-
logical ') predispositions to-
sometimes serve as symptoms of decomposition
human image and strengthening of which
ry had an impact in the real war, but
to a higher degree
And Maupassant doesn’t show us how to fuck
since this was also not part of his
I’ll start writing about everyday life - for reasons
pathological phenomena in feudal
aristocratic layer of the German region
society, then the reader himself can
think about them. Moreover, “moreover
the character of Maupassant’s depiction of them
niya is not only truthful, but also strong and
involuntarily pushes the reader to think

| focus on it and don't pass by.

In the story “Nyshka” (“Voshe 4e 51)
we are dealing with patriotism to the French
/call which; however, he looks like pa-
triotism of the Germans, for it is the same everywhere -
new First, let's find out which social
heroes belong to this position,
derived in this story: >

They run in the same coach
from -the areas conquered by the Germans -
how many French? Composition' passages"
the ditch of this stagecoach is as follows: soup-

Guy Loiseau, ont wine merchants from

ran -Pon; wife Carré Lamodan, he
owner of three paper spinning mills, forging
ler of the Officer's Cross of Honor Le-
Giona and Council Member; then the count and
Countess Hubert. de Breville—owned
were among the most ancient and blessed
city Norman surnames. Except
In addition, there were two nuns, “extreme de-
mokrat" Karijude and the prostitute "Pysh-
ka”, so nicknamed because she is beyond her years
developed fullness.

We have seen that most of these
persons belong to the bourgeois and ari-
hundredfold layer. Reading attention
Maupassant focuses on the name

but on them. How does he characterize them?

Maupassant himself? Manufacturer Carre-La
modan "during the empire was in
moderate opposition solely for the sake of

1) Painful. .

and

CHEN.

— ===

deception, makes him stop his,

in order to be paid more than you
support for the direction he advocates
defended his own expression,
a considerate weapon."

Count Hubert de Breville, old
Ryan "with majestic manners,
tried in every possible way to advance his cause
"You resemble King Henry
U, which, according to loud
family legend, was the culprit
pregnancy of one of the ladies de Bre-
ville, for which her husband was made a
fom and Aaa provinces.”

The wine merchant Loiseau was at first
clerk and, when the owner ruined-
Xia, bought all the trade from him and soon
made a great fortune

Maupassant completed this characteristic
says the following ironic words:
you: “it was part of society, wai-
richer, more well-meaning
and strong - honest and influential people
di, who have both religion and prin- _
cips." Elsewhere in the story he
calls simply, without any irony,
“honest scoundrels” (vgediz8 Voppe-
4e5).

All this described above‘company b$-
stings from the Prussian invasion. They ran:]
Are these gentlemen because they are Prussians?
showed barbaric treatment of the world
nom. population? Not at all. About. this
Maupassant himself speaks very definitively
lenno: “conquerors, subjugating the city;
his inflexible discipline, not consistent
committed no outrages with which,
as popular rumor assured, they signified
exchanged their victorious march,
the population cheered up and the traders
instincts woke up again in our hearts
local merchants."

It is difficult for a conqueror to resist
barbarism. Already in the very idea of “conquering”

5 -

Bay

4 <

ry

“to be” is something opposite

new to culture and humanism. How
maybe conquest. accompanied by gu-
manipulative ways? Warlike, mi-
the conqueror's literary habits are inescapable
are easily transferred to the civilian population - _
nie i. at best_ first’ dumb- —
Boko despises the latter. Describing. ka-

what form does the city take upon entering -
including the winner, Maupassant de-,
barks the following remark: “The city of ma-

No.

> .
m.
in,
m: o: E:

yyy

slowly took on his usual appearance.  The whole company ran away hastily. -
| The French still did not come out with the exception of the prostitute We are +9.
_ your houses were swarming with Prussian soldiers and forgot to take provisions with you. I have
and the streets. However, the blue officers had a clean little basket” =
® MUSARS, with enthusiasm, dragged through the as capacious, sight-filling
° Stovoy your big deadly extremely appetizing ‘dishes: here there would be
It seemed that the pies and the chicken in jelly were not at all related to the
E For tall citizens with great prestige, a sparrow platter, a piece of smoked’
less than the rifle officers who speak, Krason pears, pyrolate,
y. the year before they piled a whole jar of pickled cornish in the same place
then frames. nov with onions and 4 bottles of wine. Kogla
ok, ‘these gentlemen fled. They became very hungry and began to eat
If you simply because they are indignant, then everyone tried not to look at her,
| Nie against: the Germans and their patriotism and the torment of Tantalus. Pyshka, =.
& _ did not at all extend to such an extent - having a kind heart, like everyone else.
° Neither, in order to sacrifice anything in the name of their prostitute, was ready to’ share. your
z and beech.” On the contrary, everyone tried to join the rest of the passakirs, but no
° take advantage of the situation so that you decide to offer it to them out of feelings
x to make money somehow. For the sake of humiliation.
fatherland exists, according to them - “Honest people of Tsegod”, of course, a feeling:
x ‚› poor people who must protect the walls in turn deep' and veskry- :
gee that seems to be their own alien disgust for a prostitute, g
`5th below they can evaluate by driving away from themselves any thought about the possibility.
. only from the point of view of losses, the cost of accepting such an offer,
and Which ones; they were brought. These are pre-if the prostitute decides to do this.
® holders of wealth and nobility, brought together - But when the wife of a cotton factory -
| Women with the spirit of conservatism fainted from hunger at the sight of ‘rikant and
“Democrat Cornude,” they reasoned later, brought to their senses, forced:
__ especially contemptuous for the poor toden ‘was to take a sip of a few. sips
about our affairs. Count Hubert shit from a glass. Donuts and so on
and the losses caused to him at once, the Rubicon was crossed, then
we from livestock theft and all the passengers gradually, leaving behind
the dressed "breadth" were to be quite different, "agreed to venerate
excellent loss, but in his cravings are prostitutes.
—, © sounded the confidence of a noble bari- In Thoth, the stage was ‘stopped: .y.
_ On and a ten-fold millionaire, that although the passengers’ documents were in
= _ all these devastations will not hinder his `serviceability, Prussian officer failures-
° for more than a year. Carrs-Lamzdai was pained to let them go until then.
^ shyu. doka ‘in cotton. In fact, Pyshka will not satisfy him
In any case, she took care to translate Pyshka with indignation at this,
58 England six hundred thousand francs, which was called. First this’ favorites
as for `Loiseau, he managed to complete the processspiritually |
m ^ give the French commissariat all the indignation, But when the tenacity of T
E wine. those remaining in his ki were in danger of being too productive
Those Thus, the treasury owes nom detention, they quickly eat 2
gave him a very significant sum, but my sympathy for the hidden indignation"
| ‚® This is what he expected to receive in pie against the stubbornness of Pyshtseka, who

re". “Despite the various misfortunes they’ve suddenly become ignorant of. _
“Loiseau,” Maupassant adds, “they are together.” Loiseau’s wife, bai. bourgeois, estate
pretended to be brothers in money, due to their rudeness they were more
Belonging to the great free naya. Ieova put an end to that
two owners, those who made it easier for the rest of the ladies - `rozmoya-

’ They jingle gold with their hands in the air to show their true views
oh my pockets.” to the current situation.

40
‚ = “We, however. here it seems mind-
rem from old age/ - she said. - I don’t
I understand why this slut refused
called to perform his craft; times
she belongs to all men - I don't
I see reasons to refuse either one or the other
to another, After all, she was confused in Rouen
with every oncoming and cross, even
with the coachmen! La, madam, even with the kitchen
black from the prefecture! I, after all, this ho-
I know well: she buys wine from us.
And now, when it comes to

° get us out of difficulty, this ha-
he's pretending to be a woman!..
I find that this officer is holding himself
excellent. Perhaps he has long been bored
chael' without women. Without a doubt, he will

\/I would like one of us "three.UNO
he, as you see, is content with what

which already belongs to everyone.
He treats married people with respect
women. Think about it, he's here
master! He just has to wish and
he can master each of the masses by force,
That's why he has a soldier!

The lamas decided to exert moral pressure
falling for this stubborn prostitute,
who wanted so inappropriately and unnaturally
‘to temporarily show oneself morally—
resistant. They first started © her tu-
manic conversation about self-sacrifice in
in general Tried withgive examples from
ancient history.

In these pasty persuasion
Nuns also took part. Then typos-
tried to influence her himself
the count, crumbling before her in comili-
cops.. s -

‚ Having passed, one day, unexpectedly with her
on you, he told her:

! “—“Yes, and tell you the truth, my
honey, he... can even boast that
met such a pretty girl

‚ little girl, of which there are few in his homeland
I saw it." ;

The position of the unfortunate Pyshka is from
hour did not become easier and the
this noble and decent
I will have to give in to the company. She co-
agreed to satisfy dirty house-
statements of a Russian officer...

`The next day they were allowed to
I'm sorry, the meeting between Pyshka and Pyshka is interesting.

BURN.

with their companions after the night,
she shared with a Prussian officer.

“She looked embarrassed and ashamed
married; as soon as she timidly approaches
looked up to her companions, they were all the same
temporarily turned away, as if
noticing her presence. Count with doeto-
he took his wife by the arm, as
would like to remove her from touch
to something ‘unclean.

“The fat girl was amazed;
armed, however, with courage. _ she
went up to the manufacturer's wife and almost
whispered carefully:

—— Hello, madam!

“She answered her impudently, barely noticeable.
a loud nod of the head, accompanied by
with the look of offended virtue.

“Everyone seemed busy with something and everything
avoided her for a while, as if
then she brought the infection. in their skirts"

After several hours of travel, everyone
I wanted to eat. This time everyone
it turned out to be stocked with provisions.

““The donut is in a hurry and in that anxious
the state she was in when
got up, didn't take care of anything,

“No one looked at her, no one

I didn't think about her. `She felt like.

would drown in the contempt of these sfst-
ny scoundrels who, previously
sacrificing it, then throwing it away as
dirty and useless thing. Unwittingly
she thought about her basket, filled
filled with various tasty things, con-
which they all ate with such greed
stu; she'll thinkla about chickens, on which
which jelly shone, about pates, ©
pears, about four bottles of Bordeaux; and
suddenly felt that her anger was
gives like it bursts tight
a stretched string, and gives way to non-
the necessary desire to burst into tears. She
made incredible efforts on herself,
like a child I tried to hold back my tears, but
tears came against my will, glittered

‚on the edge of her eyelashes and, finally, two large ones.

drops rolled out of the eyes and flowed
whether. by her neck. They were followed
and others, sooner and sooner, like
streams of water coming out of the rock, and,
Trotekaya dlyshe, dripped on her high
chest. She sat upright, motionless
with a fixed gaze, with a stern And

pale face, hoping that no one
sees her cry. But the countess noticed and
She pointed to her to her husband. Count on-
shrugged his shoulders, as if wanting to say
ask: “what to do; It's not my fault."
Madame Loiseau laughed quietly, and
gesturingly, she whispered:

`<—“She’s crying with shame.”
“There is no real pa-
poiotic feeling. complete misery
nor make any sacrifices,
dull hatred of the foreigner, conditioned
filled with naked self-interest and thoughtless
hurt by national feeling
or self-awareness or © point of view
desecrated law - such on land -
patriotic well-being
mandating classes. This is hypocrisy
patriotism, anti-patriotic › pa-
triotism is not even nationalism or
Nuvinism is just an irritation of com-
commercial businessman who mismanaged
believed or was fraudulently drawn into
NTV unprofitable deal. '

And those popular masses who are influenced
all the burdens of patriotic

” of enterprises, as they truly manifested

represent themselves in these events? As in the race
Maupassant's stories watched alone -
kovo depicts both German and French
Chinese ‘privileged parts of the general
stva. ‘this is how he characterizes in the same way
in this regard, both German and Fraccius-
Chinese popular masses.

In the story “Mouse” Maupassant draws
there is a picture of the location of the Prussian soldiers
„dates among the French peasantry
on usleniya:

“One of them was peeling potatoes; other
guy tidied up the hairdressers
accessories; third, absolutely
Overgrown with a beard, rocked and lulled
crying child. Fat peasants
ki “whose husbands were in the war.
You pointed out to your obedient

diators what to do around the house
work: chop wood, grind coffee and
". d. One of the soldiers even washed clothes
for his mistress, completely, useless
powerful old woman."

This picture in itself is enough
eloquent, but Maupassant accompanies

gives her an even clearer comment.
Raf, who saw this picture, was

14). |

BURN.

41

very surprised. He asked the church
th watchman, what does all this mean, why
he replied:

/7 E- “After all, these are not evil people! How

They say they're not even Prussians. They
from somewhere far away, I just don’t know
where... They all still have ancestral
not both wives and children. They are not very much for-
The war is intensifying, believe me! I'm convinced
that they also cry for their husbands there -
yam, like Here; and they will have the same
poverty, just like ours. However, we still have
not so bad yet; they are, as you can see, evil
they don’t do it and even work as if they were
I'm at home. Do you understand, sir, that
poor people should help each other
gu... After all, these are strong and noble people
they're starting a war...
' Maupassant strictly separates. those who
who obey, from those who

they command. Not one -
affected by the Franco-Prussian war—Mo-

Assan did not express ‹
soldier On the contrary, describing the German

{x soldier, he never forgets the saying
Just remember that these are good guys” ($501
seyap), and in his depiction they are so
which they are. To make sure
in this, just read his story
"Prisoners." Unfortunately I don't have
opportunity to dwell on it like this -
the same as on many others, for my
the article ‘has grown so much.

Qi. h a

In the story "On ">. not dedicated to
chom military theme, Maupassant from his
persons on another occasion speaks of war
not the following: “When I just think
about this word - war, it covers me
bewilderment, as if they were telling me
about witchcraft, about the Inquisition, aboutsomething
distant, outdated, criminal, alien
prehistoric, unnatural... Howl-
on!,. Fight!. “Kill!” And
we have now, in our era, with

civilization, spreading to - >

science and with such a height of philosophy, to
which is considered a risen man
ed, we have schools where they teach
kill, kill at a long distance

in a new, improved way,

kill as many as possible at once

‘people, Kill the poor, the blasphemous,

PS.
b

r

E, O and UN

;

for the burdened and uncondemned, the thought about the harm and danger of stupidity:
according to the sum. And the most amazing thing is that (“an obliging fool is more dangerous than an enemy”) and
the people do not rebel against their own serves as an expression of this thought. If |
rulers But if we kill a lot of people, this thought will not occur to us,
crime, the murder of many—is not and we will treat the story simply as
guilt-relieving circumstance. Ho- to the description of the case (even if it’s not clear- |
hey! Yes, since there is no government, the story will lose its appeal for us" _
Thus, they recognize themselves as holy images, and at the same time - |
There is no point in being sour towards peoples. So, the thinking process, sru-
its amazing thing is that the people, [blowing images, and are called by-_
sometimes they take for themselves the right to death due to the Mathematical. Poetry is figurative -
petition to the rulers. They are thinking. It is opposed to >
anyway, they are right. No one has a different thinking process, exactly the one ›
absolute. the right to command another, who does without the participation of education
gimiz. E.' call. It's called prosaic.
: This is Maupassant’s personal view and Prose is ugly thinking |
war. He doesn’t deny it just yet. So, nayar" on the same topic -® -
bourgeois-humanitarian point of view, evil can be “mellowed, not pol
but the cited tyrant, to put it in no way, without judging |
There are modern revolutionary views of examples. These thoughts have transformed -
at her. Why didn’t Maupassant come into the discussion, into the analysis?
gives the reader this view of his(analysis) of the concept of stupidity and brought- 1
one of their fraikoduts to one or another conclusion. This |
Prussians told where he would be, a very prosaic tale (without image.
Would that be quite appropriate? Therefore, it is not the work of thought, operating the understanding |
\It says that the reasoning is inappropriate.” meh
‘us in works of art. A mixture of figurative, poetic, |
'The artist does not reason, but depicts artistic thinking without'image-\%
reaps. A scientist, a philosopher, argues, in a mental, abstract way leading to _
spreader, publicist, not an artist. a whole series of sins of art, from which
- Scientist, philosopher, thinker, publicist, the greatest were not free\
No. are filled with facts, figures, and abstract poets. So, for example, L: Tolstoy chaz_
precious concepts, logic, but artistically sinned against purely figurative”
nick—images. The artist has a way of thinking and inserted into his works
the only legal way to house the long chapters of reasoning" Not ^
deeds. th ‹ already saying that these very races -
Eco perfectly defines and explanations - judgments turned out to be, for the most part. _\
et D. N. Ovsyaniko-Kulikovsky in their weak and unconvincing, but they are for _
book "Theory of Poetry and Prose". The great images of the work were hanging around,
says there: “By delving into people’s work, they weakened their strength and spoiled their integrity.
checheskogo thinking, we notice. what an impression. r.
_ in ‘many cases it is not possible without Sinned against this condition ‘is*_
Fnostia so. so-called “images”. art and “Maupassant, putting into words”
“About ohm” can serve as any pre-church watchman’s reasoning about ^^
staging, if it is from the war, should illuminate the image -
the way of creating and expressing thoughts. a striking picture of brotherhood between
If the presentation of such 1 by the German soldiers and the French Cres =
plays, then it is not mu. styanami. Maupassant for some reason in this -
“So, for example, the story about how the bear, on occasion, did not rely on his images,
wanting to drive a fly off the forehead of a sleeping manI was afraid that they would not fulfill their goal.”
trapper, smashed his head with a stone, due to the role of thought stimulant in that _
will serve as an image only in that particular direction, not in &
case when we use it, as he, Maupassant, wanted. #4
a performance that brings to mind a true artist, and by such a method® -

Vo tik m chch->pubs: -ba Vai
TA to

33

There was definitely Maupasban, never this
› you shouldn’t be afraid. He must strive
’ ‚SYA to sufficient power of pictorial
‚and improve in skills like this
illuminate his images so that he does not
had to resort to reasoning,
dampening immediate
impression. '
An artist must depict life
comprehensively and truthfully. But besides that,
he must have a divided world-
| vision, ideal. his personal
E ideal serves him in order to depict
the life of life was not dispassionate,
not indifferent, not unprincipled, but, na"
turnover so that it gives a play of shadows and
light. Give the entire image light
'communication, comprehending the picture, about'
uniting its details is the skill
arrange the light in a certain way
And shadows, +
uz All these types - wine merchant, cotton
paper manufacturer, count, etc/—
by their actions, views, attitudes
| = mean to the working people, they speak for themselves
‚ themselves and are in the story such as
“Kimi they really are in life.
Tsem, that at the center of the story is placed
' A prostitute and a hypocritical, vile ot-
bearing to ‘drink from’ all these
„ High-ranking 060b, enough
correct lighting has been achieved. everyone
| depicted figures and complements them
figurative reproduction.

This skill is to place light and

_ N. Gogol was identified. It is known that Go-

Gol was a mystic in his views

.  Reactionary. Meanwhile, his “Inspector”
° and almost all of his works were played

’\ ‹ great social and educational
rem

shadows—especially to a strong degree

role. If he had portrayed a Russian
landowner's life in "The Dead".
or the police regime in “The Inspector General” ten-in”
Dentious, from the point of view of one's ownsharply
peony worldview, then And the novel
“Dead Souls” and the comedy “The Inspector General”
would turn into not only production
non-artistic and tendentious movements
ny, but would not have socially-re-

nutritional value. N. Gogol, right’

marvelously depicting Russian life, the dog himself
fell into captivity of his image, pose
the charming oppression of its images in
was forced to arrange shadows and light,
based on their inner essence. Og
himself, even as an author, could not ignore
to draw the conclusions that were pushed
directly with all its meaning
his artistic life.

Returning to Maupassant, it is possible.
say that the difference ‘between him and Gogo’
lem that Maupassant led the reader to
certain conclusions through their images
PS consciously, and Gogol unconsciously
but... Based on this we do not want
draw the conclusion that unconscious:
creative creativity is higher than conscious. Vice versa. we only want her.
It is clear that there are two types of creativity
quality - conscious and unconscious -
nogo. There is no need to think about how it is”
many bourgeois critics think,
that artistic creativity in general.
still unconsciously. No: one creates
to a greater extent, consciously, and at other times:
goy——to a lesser extent, and sometimes sales:
almost completely unconsciously. This is pro-
one hundred refers to the personal properties of that
or other talent and can serve
a topic for special consideration. ^

s V. Veshnev.

About prejudices in poetry. .

Noosin contained the same mass, pre-
minds, and in life. I want this one
article to draw attention only to the inappropriate
torso of them, especially intimidating mo-
poor poets, who are in need of every
Googo work comes vysl
army: imitation of Koltsov, 4
Tina, Pushkin; here - not saying anything
images, like “Green forest,”

_ heaven2; here are those who are tired, filled with joy,
order of rhyme, such as “blood-love”,
“people—freedom”, etc. `

Unfortunately, some (yes-
most) poets can’t stand it
this heavy critical artillery and st-
to the detriment of the laziness of the image, to the damage
freshthe spontaneity and spontaneity of feeling,
they strive, at all costs, to be original
nal: they pull unusual things out of their heads
sandy images for conveying sometimes the most

thoughts or feelings, seek
caustic extraordinary rhymes. Well, how about
‘In fact, write: the sky is blue when, this
for thousands of years in a row they wrote and spoke,
he writes: “the sky is a green turtle”;
rhymes: blood-love mabili everyone's skom-
ku, and the poet will crawl out of his skin to come-
something unusual like: Jesus
“I’m rushing”, not even paying attention
the tastelessness of such verbal combinations.

For example, to bale like those
then artistic works are analyzed
I take it and luck is a wonderful incomparable
beloved poem of the unfading sun
with a bowl of poetry: “K. A. P. Kern “I remember
wonderful moment” and I try to make it out,
using the method depicted above “cry-
tick. I have to say: #4

- “Nothing new in this poem
children, it is very formulaic and content-
Liyu, n in shape. "The poet remembers two
and with a beautiful woman. To describe
cue her beauty he enjoys a certain
niyami, very common among Balyushkov and

‹ Zhuvovsky, somehow: <shadows of pure grace

BURN.

you”, “your swords are very “gentle go-\
106", "cute features", etc. None of them_
specific image or In Co-_
which would make us distinguish this beauty -
Savitsa these thousands of other women, in stya- =
there is no desire. Even the feeling s9b-E.
without saying words, “I remember wonderful
moment", "the heart beats in raptures and
etc. The rhymes are very monotonous and hackneyed, -
which the poet uses: “you are beauty” -
(2 times), “Dreams—beauty,” “vision—
awakening", "vision-ignorance", <tender- 1
ny, - rebellious", "tender - hopeless, -
“again - love, that’s all, Not a single but- =
howl of rhyme: you read “again” and in advance.
you know that the rhyme “love” will follow. =
Enough. I think I can't 0
smear mud on Raphael's painting. I want
this only ‘shows that Pushkin at 39-_
thread your glory, in the prime of your creativity
quality, writes a poem and is afraid
nor the old hackneyed expressionsy, define
and words, no hackneyed rhymes, not even chur- in <
Living poems of pure beauty" - stiVOYA
Zhukovsky).
rea NEWS at Pushkin, exit -

dits a wonderful poem. Why? Po- —
because he is Iushki? No, that’s not new to everyone”_
mu. L because ‘He wrote what he wanted.
write, and as I wanted, so in papis. k.
felt strongly and this great feeling -
one hundred gave a charmingly gentle rhythm to the
wanting; old words made new
mi, because in their sounds there is some kind of
wonderful music and when the poet says: “i.e.
bestial features", then you see these but a thousand
couples, despite the fact that you are taller than a thousand
Have you ever heard this expression and sometimes it _
even produced the completely opposite effect on the
I'm impressed, the rhymes are worse, these tabloi-
new rhymes: <again—love,” “dreams—kra.”
honeycombs", 20 are unusual, mysterious,
there’s some kind of magical sit”_

Why is this so? How is Push

|

|

G,

°. some critic of the 0)s"

and OI RA

using old words and rhymes, yeah-
is there a new, enchanting poem? Answer
clear Neither new nor old words themselves
one cannot and cannot be in poetry. Poetry
- this is the music of words; and like music, closure,
varies in combination, location and longitude
the same sounds, so is poetry, mainly
in a different way, depends on this location
words From such acceleration and deceleration
them and from such sound instruments,
which are the best, the only possible
in a way that conveys that mental state
tion that the poet himself experiences and which
he wants to evoke in others - pelvis size
communication of sounds and images, which is the best
they coincide in the only possible way
© the rhythm of spiritual alignment. Therefore, in
in this place and in this verse Pushkin
could not and should not have resorted to violence
to the same images, not to other rhymes. But that one
Pushkin, in another poem, wrote
Sannom from something completely different. spiritual
building, uses such unusual, tor-
tinny, exquisitely antique words -
mi like: “Vosetan, prophet, and see n
listen,” and on the word “listen” he finds
expected, withfalse and excluding false
rhyme of "earth". ‹`

It depends on the place and time. Yes
ideas, moods, feelings that were not tolerated
cites lack of modesty. That's when
Modest images are also appropriate (and such
alien images always appear), and little

_ new rhymes (& these are always

regular rhymes). V. Bryusov is right when
Immersed in the contemplation of the self and ‘simply-
On the winter morning he exclaims:

“And my ears are caressed by the oncoming

Rhymes that are familiar and simple.”

If the poet writes in his own words, and
with its rhymes and its own images, tg.-e.
those that he actually experienced,
then these words, images and rhymes are always new,
always, full of still unheard of’: wow, mysterious-
nobility, - at least by them already
others have used. Yours would never be-
seems like no one's repetition. .

“Now about the so-called “copycat”
NOST" : 2

Today we fall into the same prejudices.

Take Zelinsky’s “Collection of critical
ski steels about "Lermontov". There's an article there
who-
ry proves that Lermontov is slavishly sub-

U

45

Pushkikz is reflected in his poems.
Zhukoveky, - almost even Benedich -
tovu. And believe me, he proves it very successfully
this critic. › he takes from. and they want-
Lermontov's "Branch of Palestine" and
compares with Pushkin's "Flower". Gathering;
The value is really large: }

PUSHKIN.

Where did it bloom? when, what spring?
And it bloomed for a long time and with whom, . .
Is it someone else's familiar hand?

And why was it put here?

And whether he and she left, whether they were alive,

And now where is their corner?
'Come on, they're already blooming,

Who is this unknown flower?

`:-

LERMONTOV.

Where did you grow up, where did you bloom?
Tell with a pious hand

Joe brought you to this region,
Did he often feel sad over you?
Do you keep a trail of burning tears?
Or God’s army is the best warrior,” |
Yun was with a 'clutter-free case'
How are you, always worthy of heaven?

After all, it seems at first sight, oz,
looks like... But this is not early, imitative
personal poem by Lermontov, 2 13
later, yes, one of them. the best. And 39

maybe Lermon didn’t know:ov Push-
Kino’s “Flower”, and it cannot be,
so that he’ knowingly or beho-

deliberately imitated Pushkin. So what?
maybe? Similarity of experiences: zoch.i
same theme, same rooms -
good situation. same mood,
lotu and similar shape. And there's not even a shadow here
"imitation". reverently pissed off"
criticism of the forties. ‘‹ :

This has continued for 40 years now. Gosio A.
critics constantly catch, laugh at the viper
complaining: “this is old”, “this is hackneyed”, what
hackneyed." E

And few of them pay attention
Is it sincerely vulgar, deep
worn. And meanwhile, ‘that’s all you can see’
that something else does not define “subrazk” -
"inimitability" or "inimitability"
at least Bereshia, story, image, feeling, etc. x.

If a mature worker wants to eat =

to share your suffering and the suffering of your neighbors
them, then, he could burn 6 and he could not avoid

rhyme “love” and dk “because it’

raphs, because rn really loves and

th.

I pay for my love too often -
ate cow's milk. If only this love were true
stagnant. radiant love-—&. blood
-hot and seething blood.

in:

ate the pag of authenticity of the experience.

I’ll save you” and redkte, fuzzy rhymes and

VIP

c. HORN No. 3

extraordinary comparisons. How many guys -
There are now volumes of poems from unusual
new rhymes and cunning!:0 strong- _
images that would never be shown to anyone -
what didn’t they give! 23rd

There is no old and no new, no kodra-
polite and unfriendly, - noun.
Art only genuine or authentic, i.e. —
fake. Everything else in poetry is pre-_
reason. whether o

8
r.
a
+
to:
2:8 >
#1.$
r
$r
I >
- y
va
<
#
.
p*
.
HE:

Do the mass readers need “Complete
collected works of Classics?

There is an inveterate custom of pooping
necessarily half collected works
vlaesikov: © youthful, very weak
sometimes with announcements, with incomprehensible and incomprehensible
in coherent passages of elaborate prose-
velvety, with worm options, with pvs-

- Mami in different chicks’ and prosaic

writings that sometimes have no blasphemy
foaminess, and a very controversial price
nnunuyu.

Konechvo, for specialists, critics,
studygreat researchers, writers, poets,
journalists and crap Llya Zyuley especially
for some reason interested in creativity
and the life of this classic, these collections
necessary, b

But obviously, not for many specialists
these sub-
collected works, on the contrary, according to de-
its shevizvo, according to the messiness of its emission,
even in the color of the paper, one can promise that,
these meetings are intended for the mass
reader.

Why does Varol still know the class?
seik‹ in? Because more than valuable
the achievements of a major writer
They usually offered him a thick Tomishe,
where, along with the case, I met some
incomprehensible epigrams on an unknown act-
rice of twenty heads, which is like a worm
gas, dry as a stick,” etc., for him
Venus soybeans; shenvo things. He will read
THIS is a “jackdaw-stick” and will throw the book where
it’s so big to read,’ and takes the book
small “How did a man fuck his wife?”
- and a great kaizhka and entertaining. And the intellect
the agent, of course, will take up the newspaper, or

if you really love poetry - “Collection
0093“ will take Igor Severyanin.

I won’t speak unfoundedly, I’ll take it for
example “Complete Works of Ler-
montova." Half of this collection is n&-
Rolu ve need in clutters only led=
his wonderful works. No need for letters
ma, transferred from the French, ve vuzhvy
yun sand weak imitative stahotvo-
rhymes and poems What can these things say?
to the serious reader from Narola? But ia-
the race itself does not know how to distinguish what is still great from
not naked. Once it’s healed, he thinks, in
book. that means good.

So that Varod would call and love his classies - _
ical writers, it is important to be completely unfaithful.
Vet ©n0eob izlaniya them. We need to seriously
nyatya with this. It’s better, of course, to summon him
at the Comvesariat of National Enlightenment
a special board of zeyuli competent in
fiction: from major and
satel. poets, literary historians and
writers directly released. from va-
kind of proletarian writers and poets.
The first, as specialists, shouldwomen to separate
valuable things from trinkets, & second (vi-
sveli from narol) as representatives of this
people will point out what things the veobholamy are
role first.

Then, in order to encourage people to read,
you need to revise the classics well, in order to
thick paper, large, legible font, &
not the way they are spewing out now.

To familiarize Varol with the classics, do not
you need to spare money in any way.

N. Streltsev.

145.

®
THEATER DEPARTMENT.

About the work of an actor on himself.

(According to Stanislavsky's system) *).

The actor was happy to work on himself,
develops the flexibility of his soul. Raksmythrim
in detail what exactly needs to be captured
here under the flexibility of the soul and kah opa do-
Stigmatizes.

Analysis of the act of grumbling showed memory yes
a number of facts. We called some of them fact-

p hindering, others helping
1 creative state. Selection of trees and
. the elimination of the latter leads the actor" to creativity

r, sche fin, chy a

‹ Wisławski inevitably understands the system

logical condition, the same as ac-
ter could select one of them and eliminate
take others at will, he must have
“: that skill, a special soul WOULD

mental flexibility.

Production and acquisition of fl. avyha, |
this spiritual technique, ‘allowing
ter every minute, according to its own 5-

lania, mastering_vat ‹Otoya-
viem (or in case of particularly unfavorable

same,

about these activities approached him)

poses the task of the actor's work
Improving acting in this we: ‚16
infinitely. On one side in front of him
the ideal of spiritual technology will always stand
nicknames to which you will strive,
< another person will be tormented by the facts that
s. I consider it my duty to betray the reader; what
he will have to deal here with the presentation of “Si-
“stems”, I understand it myself. K. S. Stanislav-
Sky has not yet published his work and only orally
and in practice I introduced and introduces her to those
who works with vim. It is clear therefore that everyone
and us, who live under the leadership of K.S. Sta-
him

` 20 to his own, t. ©. refracts them individually.

Let me also remind you that K.S. himself believed
his work completely melts awayfinished, thirsty
call laziness can introduce a new thought into the system.

E

we called them leashers. The most diverse
different shapes they will be original according to
Togo, kah dushorizya technique, r t
go on the perfect path, M more than once
It’s up to the actor to call him with this, under
what a beautiful and true mask hides
vego duny impaliya and other enemies are attacked
him. All this speaks for the fact that my work
the actor's children can and should last
all ©76 Life,

A little explanation: what did the city
These are facts that help creativity,
condition? Yes, something else, maybe elements,
components of the creative class,
its unreasonable conditions. So let's talk
From now on, we won’t talk about facts that help,
0 0b element of the creative state
and above all about attention, as one thing}
nz basic elements. > T  .
1, Wiggle. I eat

Watching the artist while working, |
it’s not difficult to notice one bright one, character © -
a new feature in his condition; this is bezu‘l02-] |
concentration, attentiveness
him to that object, to that creative
topic, the identification of which he then, Ra
in a given minute. Pay attention to this
so tense and yukop-centered,,
that almost everything that happens around him
and not related to EO ra-
Bot, not even noticed by him. He's butt
I have only my creative task in front of me

This unconditional concentration, attention
skill in creative work and sophistication -
One of the necessary conditions for this very _
work, one of the most important elements
№+

BURN,

creative state. Don't try tah or
otherwise, bother the artist during this time
ical work, distracting him with important
whatever sounds, noise, etc. d..
and when I decide to become an artist, the dream comes
from a creative state, because
his mania will be dissipated, creative
nude will be his only center
attention; and under such conditions creative
“What work cannot continue. Ve
this clearly shows the important role
plays the artist's attention with eo TV r-
chesical work.

Before setting out those ways, kindly
giving which actr teaching to be gselo-
diom of my attention, I will say ichkl to,
words about attention in general. This looks like you
fully understand the meaning of attention: niya,“

1. At every minute of a person’s life,
radiates from the outside world a huge amount of
four very diverse ideas.
Everything touches his consciousness at the same time,
what your eyes see, what you hear, what you feel
body etc. d. It would seem that such
floating at the same time and to a great extent? -
similar impressions in the representation of a person
a person should experience an incredible con-
Indian; however, everyone knows that nothing is

` like with the Jurmala chalk does not happen-

It is expected, yes_and it can happen, from all
masses of impressions are always highlighted

you are alone and fading,
air others. In the valley itself, city ‘yadya,
For example, in the face of a loved one, I can
see at the same time as mime button him
jackets, pictures of wallpaper on, etene, near the
ro he stands, window frame bolt, view

outside the window and many other objects.

Olpako. it doesn't stop me from seeing
exactly the face of a loved one and almost
see nothing else. Due to what
does the mouth pass? Only because
that my attention was focused on the face
& ne pa button, no ma, window latch
and and.

Thanks to the attention, therefore, I
I highlight this or that impression from the environment
all the other sorrows available to me,
and ROOOI accept it with particular clarity
and clearly.

This capacity of the human spirit is
to identify well-known impressions from the masses of others.”
gih and is called a network

2. Attention is of two types:

46

free and

: no. If suddenly
near you there is, papr., a knock or a thump,
if your eyes suddenly imagine
some unusual sight or
you will notice a pungent, strong odor, etc.
nor, against your will, concentrates: "
on one of these extra-feelings, then attention
the mention of them will be unpronounced
free. On the contrary, if you deliberately
you will highlight something or another that is impressed,
if, for example, you are a bit on the street
ium, you will persistently think about something
Bool, you will be awarecorrect your
focusing on your own thoughts, t"
your hatred towards myeli
completely arbitrary.

Lack of attention is characteristic of
especially for children. They are attracted by
past their desires, now these and now other sounds,
paints or objects. The child is almost
controls his attention, cannot direct
pour it in as desired. External impressions
It’s as if they themselves are directing his attention.

An adult, palrotiv, already
has the ability to pay attention
what is he tired of and can already fight
with such external impressions, with which
which a child cannot fight. `

3. It is also important for us to find out the connection between
attention and interest. '.

Can a person be attentive to
something and not feel it
interest and, conversely, whether he can feel
when acting towards something, not to be in
at the same time and attentive

No, it can't. Attention and Inter? not-
separate. They are only two sides
The same act. .

Usually. think that a thing, or a thought,
gly military other subject first of all
there should be. interested and only then.
you can be attentive to it. Sove.m

The object can be hidden and. unfailing
will become interesting to me if I ardently
I'll focus my attention on him

tion. Try this. 0o-
focus your attention? on lu-
bum familiar and not interesting
you in an everyday object;
let it be a box of matches, with

the one you usually address without noticing

her, and in any case not interested

by her. “Begin to carefully decimate” her,

you will see that this box was purchased
4
—

y}
And

day: payday

50
tet is a completely new look for you, you
you'll see her like this every time before
we haven't seen her and finally your attention
® box of matches will arouse your in-
hers

freely concentrate on

greatness. },

Please note the following: object,
on which you will be able to quarrel with 05
Attention, will accept for v26 ‹ov ri‘niun vy
pitchfork

You won’t recognize the box of drinks! Why
will this happen? Because you are an uzidote in
object, on k/Por_m concentratedRead St. ©. neither-
waving, mass of new sides, mlesu but s
Details that cannot be soaked in wounds. she: you
you will see it in variety. And it's very
important for an artist. One of the 'ichitel -
the artist’s drawings named after NN› and concluded
is that he sees the surrounding m.r.
This is how everyone else sees him. world

IMso, what interno is necessary
attracts attention, and what it is aimed at
attention, it is necessary to become in-
peresnym, `

Now let's see what's useful ©
extract for yourself the culprit Ez in his only
what was said.

What does an artist who knows how to achieve achieve?
voluntarily, according to one’s own desire, i.e.
at every given moment to own your
attention?

Firstly, he, as was said gysho,
but must wait until his chosen topic
trorchestvo itself will take him into the game
tion. Possessing the ability to triple-nirrl-
give his attention to whatever he wants,
the artist himself will do it according to his wishes
make the theme of creativity your object in
any minute."

Secondly, concentrated - production
freely on his topic, he will highlight it with the
the most of all that could be given
occupy his attention for a minute and 07
attract from volume; those. he's like raf @kjeto
in the position of an artist. which is nothing
the crown of his theme does not notice ‘yea and not
can notice, since ohm really, -
but an artist). :

Thirdly, since vision and in ers

—

BURN.

0es in it. (If, of course, you were able to 7fo-

No. 4

At the same time, the artist will receive ngobholimo.
and interest in this object" |

So, what the artist can achieve is

able to control attention voluntarily (in

at any moment select an object from yours, _

what is alien to him, and arouse in himself and me-

es to him) the essence. important conditions for creativity
quality, since attention is necessary -_

essential element of creativity itself.
Now that it has been revealed which
plays a role in creativity and how
for, the artist arbitrarily paid attention,
You can specify a number of exercises. ny. with the help

which the arbitrary vi `-o develops

mania.
For the exercises listed here,

you just need to watch. as in, ex: measuresы в2з-

possible exercises at all. Chi atel m?

can he himself acquire a huge variety of that -

what kind of exercises?
Attention exercises
1) Count the money in your wallet.

2) Examine the wallpaper pattern, consider-

third of the map, object, landscape, etc.
m3) They will listen with: to which - i’ud, sound vu.
A4) Produce in your mind how-to-learn arith-

(metic action.

5} Focus on developing your skills
or simple shapes, like circles, quadrangles,
Kov, triangles, etc.; p; to

6) From the mass of zvutoz or heloso wood
odia and follow pim polho.

7) Dzoya does not chat out loud at the same time. Sh-

carry 'vnum an tse gooch rli» og < di o chi-

melting to another.

8, Prid "mat" ryat zgi ti1 itself about different things.
figurative in nature, for example. : consideration
magazine with pictures, listening to music,

lantsy, arithmetic" calculation in the mind, -

game of blind man's buff, etc. d. Zalem quickly pr

walk from one lesson to another in science.
knowledge of someone from the outside. fries this.

we must ensure that measures are taken and
the current renaissance of attention from one for `l-
tiya to another, & not external and image of a genius

concentration. The last "mistake" is
possible in those cases when, for example, according to e
listening to music or reading quickly transitions
for dancing: you can start dancing"
shaft pas mechanically, to date
attention at the same time may still remain
focus on musical sounds, on © yshai-

essentially separate, then, united - in the story, etc.

keep your attention on the subject of creativity,

Exercise only “then will have

r

t

fr

a

=

ER:

I
$.
for:

4%
in

to
a"!

at
I

4
No. 4

=...pienavya And

meaning when all attention can be re-
honor from one object to another.
9) In a short time (a few seconds)
_Notice as many details as possible
In someone's suit, etc.; Such a task
` Requires a lot of attention and
`This is its meaning.
10) Focus on some cape
whether, from the decision of the case; about something in about
_catch on some calculation. Surroundings
‘The munching (5-6 people) is insistent and one-
_ Temporarily set the focusbroken
‹ Egg questions. Exercise reduces to
in order to be able to solve each of our problems
a dacha or a question, and answer it all scrupulously
To those who reap. This is how it is done. Exercise yaoschiysa
_ Voluntarily shifts your attention from
their thoughts to the questions of others, from
lasts on them, comes back again
Freely x his thoughts, answers again
ia questions, etc. The exercise will be
make sense only when the exercise
` The person who is in control owns those around him, and not
surrounding them when he is not lost from
_ Masses of questions, “when they don’t entertain him-
_ Cabins and do not distract from the topic that
+ in he chose in each given moment.
__ 066 this is only possible if
_ F0venia with voluntary attention.
_ Waiting minute of absent-mindedness is indicated here
’_ No. that the practitioner does not own his
‚ _ M attention.
`M) Focus your attention on; th-
° SHII (about sowing) while surrounding
those who will look at the reader,
^. Yaat tsa his account remarks, change it. d.
| 12} Listening to a piano or choir playing
‚ concentrate mentally in some way
__ Be an outsider.
_ 13) I tried to instill in someone a definition
’_ Helena thought.
These and others of the same kind are laws"
’_ MIA husband about making an important day and right there
_ Possibly chalio *).
| No. Harisho to have a small pocket qui:
—— 8CHKU, in which all exercises will be recorded
^ Iva Ts0 “Oietemo” and, having it always at hand,
"Take advantage of every available minute and you
`To play around during the day but the possibilities are out.
_ exercises included in the book. Völ pain-

E Doing exercises does not require social
_ Time for your grooming. Them. can you:

I'm on the move, on the street, between business, loudly

bks accustom yourself to being alone
everything was wasted, without exercise.

food:

Ka-

5x

One more note. .

Trying to concentrate on kaz-yi-
be the subject, you can fall into mistakes
what kind: we can: o try “not: 8 yu al”,
“don’t see”, “don’t hear”, “don’t bother
attention" to certain opinions, in>
related toboktu. But this is not
right. You only need one thing: be careful
related to the object, all 2 unnecessary interference
everything disappears by itself,” Trying “and>
pay attention”, “see everything”, “don’t hear-
shat”, we thereby. not at all close
pressing towards the object; but, on the contrary, “and-\
dim" and "hear" are exactly what is not needed. }

I’ll explain this to the seaside people. Imagine. se2e,
that you are laughing. Irichina's laughter is helpless
personal, let it be at least laughter ©
causal, whatever happens from ino.d: right uyu-
despondency, lethargic mood, etc. Pre-
Let's assume that you want to stop eating,
How to do this? Need to direct your
reaction to any object that does not have B
bursting into laughter and family cessation
by myself. But if you are vm-6.0 it is © soer›-
Focus on making her laugh. then
laughter is not only not irokratiteya, but also u-
foundry, This will happen from the fact that
you're trying not to laugh, you
The first thing you do is to laugh and turn
your attention.

Sometimes it's good to use mark three
Mom for ogo to ROLL laughter in yourself,
when you need it.

2. Fantasy,

A breathtaking work of art
to a certain extent, a product of fan Azmi hood
Nick. Fantasy in the artistic feast of centuries - *_
lei. may manifest itself: with pain
less courage, courage ‘soya’ itself
fast, etc., depending on talzot
and development of the artist, in the absence of

‘She can’t do it at all. /Image of UFO life and

without fantasy or with phyto: yu
weak, limited, immature, liquid.
Baht is more of photographs of life than of creativity
technical reproduction of it.

The more pre-knowledge of Hujni & in- -
goes to photograph life and, mmmn-
The higher its value, the less we will eat it. `
gives pleasure to the viewer and to the artist himself
doakiiku, the more moitshe in izm video tv rz-
the artist's idea,

Faltasia pokhgomu tajuz sl dueg chit.

And. E

ZN OC NOW

one of the necessary and important edem-
creativity and the development of her artistic
Nick needs to work as well as on
development of the ability of voluntary, attentive
what is fantasy? |
Free, non-compliant | oafii
connection strengthe and a combination of different:
of images is called fantasy,
Material for fantasy, i.e. those images
which freely connect and combine
they fight with each other, they always fight and: live
always remain the same
In themselves, they are characteristic of design
At least as a person with a rich fan-
Tasia, and to an ordinary person, from
gifted with this ability. And no one in
world is able to come up with a new sensation
new feelings, new feelings, etc. The whole way-
fantasy comes down only to the combination
nization of this material, these general
human images, to their connection, separation
unity, combination, etc. And cham smal:6
fastasia of the artist, than its development and
the more diverse, the greater the strength and e-
his products receive brilliance
Let me note, by the way, that phasing
maybe not only an artist, but also a scientist,
architect, any remodeler, etc., N›
the purpose of fantasy is that each of them will be in’
The scientist, fantasizing, i.e. ooletya lime-
phenomena of life that are familiar to him, say, stabbings
nature, imvet pelyu finding new.

‘the greed of nature; architect or MoHLNIKH,

s

vombibing the data known to them, motug
strive to find new ones that are more stable;
beautiful forms of buildings, etc.

The artist has always fantasized
the purpose of expressing feelings and
effect on the senses. ^^

Here it would not be amiss to remember one hundred
I say the truth, which I regret 10 years ago
often forgotten by artists. Ate better-
stva fantasies © one side x zav syag og
artist's skills combined mater at tah,
so that the best corresponds”
shaft of his creative theme and conveyed '-
feelings, then’ on the other hand the quality of fan-
Asia depends on wealth, that matter a-
aa; which the artist owns. That mu'o-
rial, which the artist needs for his
creativity, it is impossible to find chi in any studies
wah. The artist himself must extract it
from life, he himself must study life”, du-

Faltasia.

E. ^^

software = "

wives to look for a wide variety of attractions? -
decay and sensations, must convene for
their conditions, and not wait until life serves
tea will give him this or that beautiful thingand an unexpected impression. ry

Artist, in whatever field of si zr:- “
nerd. should study arts
products from all branches of art
but must be a layman in painting, mu-
language, sculpture, etc.

The quality of Faltasia depends on naksnzts and more -
from one circumstance; to ‘understand =
imagine this is the case, let's see before- |
Baritol, what is the relationship between the two
faith and naivety of the artist and his -
ъ

It is known that doti and 'dizi>" are small cultural
and yiz people had a greater sklin with yo
to imagination and fangazia, than to grow up?
people and cultural peoples of Go Bie. Day-,

rightly, what can be compared with fanta-
sis of children, manifested in their wit - _
flamboyant and intricate games, and perhaps even more fun.
The Zia of savages created every possible spirit in,
gkomov, voliebnokoz and other tamnetvzigys |
inhabitants of forests, seas, etc. And kah in
compared to these fantasies poor fan a_
zia of cultured people, and!

What explains this? Coizno; not those
that a savage or a child by nature has
Dalot with a big gift fastagit in comparison -

with a vulture man, as they think
usually. The point is; that's like a child,
so is the savage oelajut un", small class
quality of accurate knowledge; im and d stutsny m]
ny sciences, placing 6568 in the united U. |
frames. The existing vis will cause groceries and}

s st ma ezioven 1. I don’t know!° zakh n in life
allows them’ to combine oegases, p› path
with oneself the question ‘© that perhaps it’s like this
sosetanze v actichl not; ‹ntzuzvod |
available in Greater Asia usklyu’i 6l5® |
feeling. Child, nalramor, lek” new: _ |
rit in the existence of the underwater kingdom, |
mermaids, mermaids, etc. d., tai kaz on n" y
knows whether life under water is possible for a child"
Logical-like creatures.

In short, the savage and rebets nai -
we are gullible and, thanks to this namvi) -
simplicity and frivolity, fans of their freedom No.
rich.

Now it’s clear how important r’l, di)
the artist's creative imagination plays with his %/. |
faith and naivety. And here’s the sevremeloma.”

in

>
No. 4. BURN. 1

cultural artist, painter, and artist
versed in precise knowledge and`daleyu mu po
our identity from a savage or a refugee,
goes si tsi`l NY slave then: ts.p liyat, tt
artistic gap, which is created in

these exercises, long work develop
to harbor arrogance and gullibility

- That naivety and great artistry
great talent is always inseparable, x--
is well confirmed, by the way, by the fact
‚Tami of real life, ‚Take bio-
graphies of great artists, pro-Oleditei\
well, and you will find features in them,
"characterizing their amazing talent
NOST

So, having developed majesty in ourselves, we
-We are going to increase our quality and valor. yours. creative
skoy faltasia and

Exercises on, ver ‚/, naivety and flu-
tag, exactly the same as for attention,
anyone interested can invent
that amount of thunder. I give here a few
examples,

his soul with culture. He has to: uh

Exercises.

1) `Handle with haraldalium or ka-
_ Kim some other object, like © for-
a dressed-up reroller, a straight razor,
kiphal, snake, etc.

2) Walk around like a puddle
mud, on hot hot sand.
3) Imagine that the toys are
fermenting animals or people, in fact
Also living animals and people.

4) Play like children in various
games, for example, horses, car,
firefighters, etc. |
°5) Accept funny unusual ps-
position, surround yourself with unusual clothes
new and believe that it is necessary for
for your own happiness, for the happiness of your neighbors
s, for victory over the enemy, for personal
services to a friend, etc. Numrimer, network
squat on @tul, put in& head
inkwell, take the bow plate to Wuby
current, squint your eyes and in such a lo-
declaration of love or pro-
__have a serious conversation.

5) PD yy every-zibud funny yy
ritual (to honor the king,
hay and turn him out © in all seriousness -

k. | ness, uprightness and naivety.

In the range of fantasy exercises

<

but we recommend the following:

1) Look for similarities” between the subject: and and
certain people; between people
flashing; Chan az r wat. n.’him: as in
the mood of that andla ‚nogo neodusheva nio ©
subject", how old is he, what is his
natural position etc. And.

2) Fantasize to music. ^

3) a. Someone will say 2-3 words.
The listeners fantasize about these words.

b. The same thing, but ordered in advance”
mood, i.e. determined in advance
that fantasy on spoken words
must have sad, joyful, in-z-
magnificent, sad, mysterious, r t.
ical character of the game. p. |

4) a. Somebody's going to make all this shit happen
sounds, noises, knocking, etc. Exercisers
sitting with his back to him and listening to the pro-
the sounds he makes create with their faitasis
some picture, whole, connected"
departing in their famtasia st evuhsn.

B. The same thing, but © ordered in advance
pastoral building

With. The same thing, but with a predetermined
no picture. The difference between this research
We use exercise (c) and the first (a), in that
that here the sounds must be justified by evil -
thought picture, then kah there (uh) ‹wa
the picture arises from sounds. .

5) Divide the road according to custom
came to walk, to wow, to hang out
imagine that in one of them all the same
people suspect you of murder or something else
you yourself must discover the killer, in the third
there is a bomb planted somewhere and the faces are
It is possible to determine where exactly the sleep pattern is located.
laid down, etc.

6) Select. somehow ‘very small> zia-

_what face do you like (or even what face do you care about?

mine) and try to imagine it
life go voeh podrebnoetuh, dustvo, sales”
wow future life and even death.

7) Imagine 62bya fortune teller, hero-
mantom and arrange sessions.

‚ 8) A group of people collapses at the table. Who ii“ ud,
pronounces a word. Seated 6
next to him, “elyta words”, s‚ara“te gul Vito
with my first ow chaslenie, who are you here"
in our only tyu pronunciation e ‹o6sdom
word, tries to understand t> pegvay image p -

who was in his imagination, and immediately.
transmits this image of himself to the next person. d.
Arising in this way <sbr:zya byva’ g

m
al
54

so subtle and elusive,
in other words, sometimes

therefore, you should not embarrass yourself when you move” -

hthen pass them on

almost impossible, |

9) Try to find beauty in everything
subject, in a wolf position, in a cart
thoughts, pictures, etc. This exercise

conveying your images in a way that is most important is extremely important. One bond of the properties of TVZR-

dachas Let it be a gesture, an expression
tsa, even an inarticulate sound - in›
all the same, as long as it expresses that elusive
the image that arose in the mind.

The benefits of this exercise are as follows: st\-
Trying to catch the first image of each person,
are given to sharp and deep penetration
into your feelings and fantasy images. Gas:i-
show sensitivity to them and 0e.ayug rude_tl
in relation to your fantasies.

Indeed: take any word, pa-.
irimer, “hours” and try, streshivig. sj
og rude, ordinary provision of va-
What about the “clock” to keep track of what’s going on
your fantasy at its worst! this th
words. You will see, “Those images can be
at the same time the most unexpected +e. the most ud in -
body! Maybe it will be like...
some guy with a clock on a fairy-tale snake
or the image of some kind of power, “n‹ ie-
"Running Hour"!

Or maybe your clock is striking]
in the imagination they brought me from MK MNBDI si-
what events you remember in your life and
this event will be resurrected in your soul!
ste with the image of a clock:

And now, having learned in this way
listen to the subtle, barely perceptible
images of your famtazai, wa ok
a small favor to myself as an Artist.

This is precisely what the human soul is committed to,
that she is capable of seeing and drawing out red
hundred of the fact that the soul is not creative but
Even Wiimania honors! True xy5
The debtor sees first of all beauty and before-)
dignity, and not ‘ugliness and lack, )

The more criticism and reproach s`yShim^ /

from the artist, huh? ist him and us ||

quality can be expected from him.

You have already clearly noticed that the elastic

appreciated, offered attention, and "faith -

i_iveness and fantasy cannot be ignored
know with exercises, useful and exclusive

strictly for attention or exclusively for -

fantasy, exclusively in faith and calv-
ness. It turns out that everyof these
exercises, whatever it was for -
right-handed, requires equal attention
knowledge, fantasy, faith and naivety.
What follows from this? What's more creative?
The Chinese process is one indivisible
souls, where all the elements of creativity are in
I wait for the moment at the dacha and go around
we. None of the elements can be missing
stove. The creative moment combines
analysis on which the system is based,
separated these elements theoretically for
71st, so that it would be more convenient to call
below, study and understand them.

itself all the elements inseparably. And shadows

01

b

And

ig
.

CLUB DEPARTMENT.

About the content of club work.

Have we developed a type of “new” ardent
letarian club, in the work of which we can
but it would be based on further
club construction? To this question
You can only answer in a negative way; not
Not only do we not have a model club, but we also
the ideal of such a club is completely different -
is depicted by many of the club workers Do
the old debates about cultural
tour-tregism, about the club as a propaganda
center, etc. In the club section of the Department of Na-
native education M.S.R. and K.D.
poor, final look at the club
as a center of political agitation, - Know-
A significant number of club workers
defends the type of club that corrupts the
Naya. The third group seeks to use
not so much a club as a team of people,
how much is the club room; and look at
club as a place of proletarian recreation—
interesting pastime, entertainment
predominantly.

Usually, the club strives to immediately cover
all three sides of this work and leadership
Club owners take credit for it if they
it will be possible to “reconcile” the various sub-
halls for club work.

However, I have the courage to affirm
Expect that from such okroshka there is no way to create
give a new proletarian club. how not
create an ogo and using all three methods in

Lessons are quickly forgotten
past. Party workers who have

60b0th more than a dozen years of illegal re-`

‚ calm down, creating for 300,000 ra-
sneeze eight schoolsand weekly rallies.
gla member of the illegal party worked in

propaganda circle, he never

could get rid of the belief in evil
accuracy of their knowledge, and the abstract system
forced him to work on his self-education
calling continuously,

District party school skoiv 14 le-
tions creates the illusion of complete signs
ny; and how can a weekly meeting
to replace the former “Mayesovkas” and district-
This school does not replace propaganda
sketo mug.

Party workers forgot about that
ment that the illegal party maintained.
They forgot about systematic propaganda,

‚ replacing it with training and alitation.

Club workers make the same mistake.

Systematic propaganda based on
self-indulgence of circles—club work
should be based on amateur activities
sections. The club can be turned into centers
ah! Itations, or courses, or dance. All
It can fill the club jam, in
not a member of the proletarian club. Every
The club, depending on the composition of its members, has
your face. It's no coincidence that the clubs
the bourgeoisie turn it into gambling houses,
At a rally with food and drunkenness in them
passion is involved, because the bourgeois even
fills his rest with a keen desire to lighten-
what profit, .

The Proaetar Club also has its own
zionomia, but her features are not yet yours
cutting so that it cannot be mixed with chom
or crazy.

St. Petersburg and Moekva host maseu tea-
nykh, which are usually considered folk
clubs.

Is this type of barking club typical?
letarian? By composition of visitors
Tea shops are not only workers. Permanent
56

Her

No. 4

teahouse keeper - Moscow or St. Petersburg
Everyman. And since the worker lives life
new of the everyman, only insofar as he is
We're regulars. Send it... to the tea-club
some proletarian shade of the philistine.-
the worker is powerless. The teahouse is a club for everyman,
zhvoz galanenie and kukhotu clearly pierced
there are stupid arguments - sometimes drunk,
sometimes sober, but always tense and
passionate. In the teahouse it’s not just “they say”*,
in it aboutare discussing. "Discussion" - here
feature of the tea club.

A proletarian club is characterized by co-
absolutely special trait—activity,
number of members.

All you have to do is open up to the club and they
A choir and drama club are being organized.
Why are club members so willing to record
join the choir and amateur troupe -
whether it is “interesting”, does not require
special skills and work? No, that's not why
I have seen how elderly people persistently try
tried to memorize the notes, with what torment it was given
they just walk around the stage, and from’ talking
thieves realized what attracts them to these circles
activity of all participants; Everyone is busy.
“everyone is working,” and the very process of work
barks them satisfaction,

We must understand this peculiarity of the members of the pro-
letarian clubs, and then the question of internal
the early work of the club will become clear and simple.

Proletarian Club is a public school.

But this school can only work for
based on the initiative of its participants.
Therefore, it is enough to organize a section
or a circle and provide them with raw materials
scrap, & further work will go inside the section
through the efforts of its members. And only" in rare cases
cases the section will contact outsiders
help. It’s probably not easy to lead -
for the club business to give up patronage and
watch, but life will force them to do it,
since creativity began in the proletariat
will not fit on the Procrustean bed in advance
developed programs.

What kind of material should be given for
started working? First of all, a few inputs:
nal conversations or lectures. The purpose of such meetings is
awaken interest in this branch of knowledge
or art and outlines prospects. For-
those who showed through experience the techniques of collective
work. For example, I’ll take the sopia section
flax-economic. |

First, a conversation about the meaning of savings in
public life. By indicating the initial
literature and introducing the methods of free-
calling it, you can first move on to circling
logical reading and analysis of one or another
books, & then to choice and collective
discussing topics for essays. After pro-
reading by any member of the section ‘first
abstract, workthat leader will come down
only to indicate sources for -intended-
nyh section of topics.

The approach will be different in different sections.
different, but the content of this preliminary
work should be one thing - to awaken the self-
activities of members and provided them with material for
independent work.

Only against the backdrop of such a massive and at the same time
the time of systematic work will be revealed and dis-
a new, proletarian culture is swirling, and
not in the greenhouse atmosphere of demonstrative
schools and studios,

Among club workers-cooperators
the “new” campaign enjoys great success
personal club work.

The leader wanders around the tea club and
joins one company or another.
Having become interested in the conversation, he directs her to
desired topic, forcing interlocutors to
think about resolving different issues
pros.

This method is new, of course... They use
for centuries, everyone who went to the
genus,” and pelesusually this is not a mass method
collective work, but the work of the masses.
However, the problem is not even in the approach, but in itself
the essence of such work.

Club (this is where everything fits so far)—
public school. For such a school
a tea room is not quite the right place. In
at any rate, for the proletarian club.
There is no systematic work
There is no need to cut with this method. More
work gives less results in the sense
development of amateur members
club. The manager sat down at the table -
the soda will go in the desired direction, & not
sat down, walked past, and the conversation goes awry
and at random, because there is no definite
those sitting at the tables have no purpose for the conversation and
it can't be. And since for each oto-
the face of leaders is not enough, that’s all
such work is completely accidental -
ny character.
No. 4 V ZH & SE |

We must remember the completely unjust ones that will help club members break up
the forgotten ways of a circle, a collective - in social circles and begin to independently
work and without setting a goal for work.
create universal programs for clubs, p
prepare only the first basic bezels, }

Rhythmic gymnastics lessonDrama Studio of the City District M, P.

in
PC

About working in a club for teenagers.

“One of the essential tasks of culture is
nogo construction. proletarian, is
helping to ensure that the spontaneous goth can
lodezh was introduced into the mainstream of conscious
class life-creation." 1).

Every person should be conscious
a member of his society; therefore in action
The task of education is [to rejuvenate the ray:
human impulses and develop personal
ity useful for society.

The basis of work with the South, about congestion
It was written, even more was said,
included the following: organization of district
clubs for teenage workers with experience
special instructors; and lecturers; teenager
possible grants to carry out freedom
ate from work while not in the soul of the mother
skaya or, vulgar cinema, but in another
sphere, behind the world, behind the creative ideological
work; awakening of class self-esteem
ranks. } y !

Everything that has been said is excellent and quickly agreed upon.
the population itself knew the city and, I sing with it
initiative and with the assistance of the Department of
native Education, in Moskzo currently
Currently there are up to 40 clubs in operation -
schools for teenagers.

The most well equipped
in cultural and educational, and in ho-
economic relations clubs: Simonoz-
skiy, "Young Communar" on Volkhogka and
Sushchevsko-Maryinsky Workers’ Club

sprouts

Located on the most remote outskirts
ve of Moscow, densely populated by factory and
craft people - zhlub aa.
sprouts of the Suschevsko-Maryisky district
appears to be the most lively, multi-membered and
the second club of all existing ones
in p

It should be noted that in the expanding
activities of the club, especially in orthasis

1} The first paragraph of the resolution on the issue of
2nd one placed on the 1st Fan. Coin-
ferences extended, k.-pr. organizations.

\

religious work; workers-grew up pre-
set on their own initiative, only directed
run by the head of the club, old
teacher and populist writer G.D.
Deev-Khomyakovsky.

One evening I had to be
in this club.

Met by the noise of soaring young people
loowls and Vadors adjacent, I found myself on, revived
lazy meeting.

Vast, brightly lit with electricity
the hall is decorated with dark green lavatalgi, scarlet
mi, embroidered banners poster and znz-
men; portraits of writers and public
ny figures. There's a sparkling light in the corner
Christmas tree...

In front of the presidium table, several
rows, in a semicircle, sitting sedately young
members. ' C

On the agenda:

E - And the eyes of the Council; m

2) About the auditorium in the Maryino Theater <
Roshchinsky People's Duma and the Reorganization
answer the scene; .

3) About contributions.

And Current Affairs.

ut re-election of the Board. Outline -
Xia capdidates. Someone is quietly tickling
balls, Older ones, bending over to their knees,
took a drag from a cigarette; (nothing wrong)
you bark: “Irivychka”!). :

Elected by closed ballot
voy Board of 7 people. }

Everything is done seriously and sedately, ©
clear awareness of the importance of the work that
which is entrusted to the Management Board.

Sometimes slipping witticisms and jokes
Lalot meeting is not dry and not tiring -
nom.

The list of favorites is announced.

Heard a singing voice:

- Give your word!.. comrade. Chairman'...

Thin woman & reaching up.

t Soa about nie. Word a -=#
No. 4

Forgets himself and switches to friendly
note from a member of the assembly.

- Comrade Nikolaev!.. Your word:..

14-year-old comrade. Nikolaev rises to
hum: `

- I would... comrades... I would like something...
If only we had young ladies on the Council... Ochel
“I want, brothers... so that.. +

The speaker blushes.

“Yes!.. yes..,” voices pick up:

- Let them work too... No one cares...
right!..

- Smirnov!.. Dodonoz!.. - podoloten
already the names of the candidates...

The head of the club, T.G.D., takes the floor.
Deev - Khomyakovsky.

- Comrades!.. Before the old holiday -
prison to resign, you need something...
would it give us a report on its activities
for these three months of work!.. '

- Proenm!.. Proswm!.. Aha/.,, gotcha!..
Come on... post it!.. |

Sly remarks and laughter pour in...

Without slash, resting your palms on the edge
table, swaying in the same manner of speech, prose-
Dalel, 17 years old worker, gives a reportet.

Club f © October 25, 1918
year. Teenagers are accepted as members
workers from 12 to 18 years old. Votupny member
fee 2 rubles, monthly 50 kopecks.
About 300 jaws were covered. From 1 Japanese
brewing 1919 club members enjoy
free lunches in Maryino - Roshchin
skbm Narodny Duma. Permanent approved
clerk © state reward of 100
rubles per month.

At the meeting on Ar 11, 1918,
new to ask Dept. People's Education
About the name of the above Instructions
native Dumas named after the writer L.N. Tol-
that and about providing it to the regiment
order of cultural and educational
organizations of Marigo - Roshchinskaya region,

Classes at the club are divided into ketubas
and school ones. The club is divided into sections:

D) Dramatic and literary, pre-
submitter comrade Deev. $

2) Musically - choral, controlled
artist Ivavov-Soloviev.

3} Drawing, and 4) section of visual 0u-
re under the direction of Zuev.

School classes are conducted according to adiphme-
tics, geometry, technical drawing, but
howl history, Russian language and literature.

RU

I.

\

59

The largest percentage of zalisavitihea, */..
the manager of the club tells me, gives me
on dramatic, literary and muses -’-
cal section; on them most re-
the interest of teenagers is sharpened, and therefore
classes in designated sections are held
lively and fruitful.

With the help of the dramatic sections, in three months
the success of the club was established
but 4 performances that went quite smoothly
Pepinya and with full collection.

In the literary section they write and read
xia abstracts, the topic of which is produced -
Xia choice of teenagers.

Organized by teenagers” bi-
library, but there are not many books.

The school club is the most lively
interest is manifested in histories in general, in
in particular to the history of Russian literature,
in the study of which significant
a special place and attention for writers and poets,
who came from the working environment of villages and
cities.

The teaching method is the most varied
qi simplified.

For example, there is a conversation going on - a history lesson.
ries of the labor movement. Teacherfor-
gives speeches © to teenage workers about v0z-
the decline and development of their plant, where
are working. The teenager is interested in the subject
something close and understandable to him. And right away
a whole lecture is given about Jacquard, about the development
ties of machine production, trade,
the growth of capitalism, the struggle of workers against
slavery exploitation.

Thus, touching upon the understandable sub-
objects and phenomena sprout, along the way -
those questions, the study of which
was marked by the leader; teenager
but, recognizing the evil one, let us not
through dry and monotonous cramming,
deliberately ponder over what they have read and heard
crazy, the womb creates an inextricable connection
of his “I” with the great struggling worker
with this class it firmly and truly consolidates
studied in one's memory.

the visual section is weaker
handicrafts.

For its operation, tools are required.
ment, such as: drills, knives, chippers, saws
vi, mine, and b

— Will we soon study plumbing?
commodity, carpentry mt n—
tory teenagers. ’
bo

They'll celebrate at Nentr. But the "center"

- You have the permission to go
in the Soviet store, etc. 5.

> "Boca. I'd like to study the burner... Rabogi

they ask. “-says Oz Mke.
workers G teenagers Sushchevsko-

Maryinsky district has connections with the district-
nym Prolotkult and with the Section on the Earth
Picol Education Commissar. Pro-
light, but there are almost no indications from there,
no help; and Moli would not be at the head of the club
there was a man standing. sincerely and fervently loving
doing the assigned work, then maybe
_ would have to make a long way to get to the ideological
side of the construction of Svobrdka
Russia,

... The meeting ended.

The teenagers scattered to their rooms.
areyateya zruvi mandolins... peenya...,

Before-

OE

———— =. <

° “The dead rest in the world...
'' "It's come alive!..>
. “Behold, our young ‘tribe!..’”
from the wall the scarlet banner blows invigoratingly |
confident slogan:
— “The future is in our hands!..” 2
Great creative work is going on among the masses -
youth, who in the future will go strong
vue will be reflected in our entire social life.
and political life. -, 7
Department of Extracurricularomu Obra-
calling needs to enter into action: -
Most of the clubs are not dry official bu- —
major comments, & © |
power, somehow: getting a job in a library club -
bang, sending lecturers and veterinarians, 2% E
gentle subonlia, etc., etc... =“

Vslikie countable zhortey prinogyg | 1%

what humanity - young sheotvo - justification of these. hey

same

and in teenagers, in our healthy - p
youth - consolidation of Ideas ыы 3
tsialism and the guarantee of Victory! .

Zoya 10 —
in

At the workers' club.

_ Large, nice, airy room
auditorium, bordered with prech
side by side spacious rooms for
library-reading room and cafeteria sYrava
illuminated by large windows. According to the
neatly hung for us, beautifully
wounded in frames, portraits of other writers
zey of the proletariat. Released

the proletariat knows how to gratefully ‘honor’
those who in the dark nights
ry with the light of their hearts while

‘called his way. Under the portraits

neat posters with captions hung.

mi © cleanliness and silence. Front
part of the Val is occupied. beautifully decorated
stage. There was a piano on top. For estra-
painted gold paintings hung on the wall
volume Red Banners. Communist Party
portraits framed in red
the leaders of the workers - Marx and Lenin.

Today there is a big concert at the club.
The hall is full. There are intellectuals, but
oppressive majority - workers; love-
di machines and anvils.... They are noticeably
managed to get used to their new guardian
mom - club. ‘

Space and cleanliness are more
scares them, just as the open spaces used to scare them
lordly chambers. Among adults, like
small fish around old piles,
children scurry about and noisily fill the hall
cheerful squeak. Before the concert with
speech on the current moment. stands
Vad communist. The hall stood together
teas. his applause, and immediately
quiets down under the first words of communication
hundred. The speaker speaks about the difficult, great
the torments of a world engulfed in painful pro-
process of rebirth. He says all
carefully and methodically. Simple, energetic
his words are strong and strong as alcohol
strengthens the heart and cleanses the brain. ‘|

The chaos of doubts dissolves in them and
alarms. Through neitherx, as if through a magnification-
clear glasses, for unskillful thoughts

#5).

—mysterious contours are visible. those
hidden forces colliding to death
body fight, the struggle of which is
all the horrors of current days have been created. 3 va-
le quiet. Even small children are susceptible
the elements of silence fell and silently shrank
near their fathers and mothers, and only
occasionally, like chicken wings, often
They poked their little hands in the air. B
living, creative silence from the words of orato-
ra was mysteriously born and filled
souls the great truth of the unity of all
oppressed, and in it, like rotten yarn,
the entire sticky network of alarms burned to the ground and
fear.

From above, from the walls, through the frames, as in
windows of eternity, stern faces look
teachers of the people, by their prayer they
as if they were deepening the eternal truth.
the words of a communist, the truth that
in the old days they taught the disadvantaged
nykh. An electric light shone from the wall and ceiling.
Trinity. The arcs of the ogy trembled evenly
in round bubbles of lamps. Once upon a time ma-
lazy sparks of thoughts, guesses
nature, like drops in a black cloud, onc
sparkled in the individual heads of the people.
Multiplying, the units flocked together, and
now they live by fire, like real people
words, telling people © immortal-
the unifying force of labor, connecting
in one kinship ‘gone into eternity’
the relationship of ancestors with those living today
ayudmi...

The working audience seriously, thoughtfully
in silence before the revealed secret
happening, and under the flow of peaceful
words of the speaker stood motionless, like
dilapidated, cracked from long use
the earth is dry, under the warm May rain.

When, approaching the edge of the stage,
the speaker is also strict and methodical, but
raising his voice slightly, as a conclusion from
pointed out in his review that the forces of history
and nothing can stop the strength of the one who is walking

\
.62

——-

the power of the insurgent proletariat is nothing
won’t win, the audience is like a bird,
burst into thunderous applause,

Anprakt... In separate groups left-
workers in the hall, there was a lively
conversation excited by ‘the words of a com-
munasla. .

I was sitting in one of the groups... Ito
wandered around the world? “Are you listening?”
My co-worker pushed me on the left elbow
‹ice,elderly worker, small, thin
and sinewy, as if woven from mo-
chal...—Today, tomorrow, here and there—
report and meeting - just listen. And
everything, you know, goes to your head. Will last
there's still a year to go, so that means -
“Lenin, look to the bottom all the cream
will... : |
‚ = Notice it and it will come out like this... He
paused...

- See, here. he stretched tenderly

hand to the curly head, running *

boy passed us by. Vin Roth, inch
growth. and he's already on the line. Na saaa... mine
verr... no line. With everything, ‘that means. how
It should be."

For a minute the neighbor dreamily sighed

frowned, looking with an uncertain gaze
somewhere in. etoron.
- 4 And © what happened to us?—Siro-
- I have the strength, putting his crouched position -
hand on my knee. He pointed
on me, covered with rare rings -
mi red hair, face. In his little ones
the sick eyes glowed with small rhizomes
the tears of undried tears...

- 9 'has happened to us? Jacques ska-
are you eating here, connoisseur?..

`— M... yes. You can't say anything here.
For fertilizer, therefore, a lid...
“He sighed...

After the intermission, a major fiction writer,
also greeted with applause, chi-
told his little, glorious story from
-the past, about the grief of the mother, to whom
the gendarme brought a half-tube to the tree,
after his son was hanged in the city.

The music department went to do the reading. Pe-
the audience listened to everything from the speech and music
with the same interest of healthy souls.

`I started playing around with the music as a little girl.

group. -At the lintel of Lzeri 8 left
There was a middle-sized worker standing on the wall of the hall.
Why are you clinging to, tenaciously grasping

. dawn... So far only the edge of luxury*.

<*>

with his little hands by the edge of his cospem.
cue, the blond boy is obviously his.
son. The artist played on stage at the piano.
“Seasons”—Tchaikovsky, etc.
poking in front of the nasal cavity of each section
poems to which music is written. |
I was amazed at how tired the face was.
something strange, sensitively responded to.
the effect of every sound of music. Was |
It’s noticeable that there are flocks of different thoughts and feelings
they walked like ripples on a lake -

the seats were difficult, it was difficult to sit between
y. r

his face, and before he couldI give in to my friend.

It was clear how he became more and more
was filled with the sounds of music. When
artist, began his last department on.
poems by some writer, - r and
strangely stretched out, upper half
his body leaned forward, his eyes widened
They rushed out, clenched their mouths, shuddered a little, surprised -
Vidis, afraid of losing his balance, ©.
grabbed his son's head with his hand,
as if trying to entice this with a robe ‘where-_
then into the distance, looking at some new wonder...

It is unknown what the soul absorbed
ita worker from the sounds of music; but look=
on his arched figure, lifting up.
I'm almost wearing my socks, pressed by K.
hip son, I thought: - I’m exhausted -
Cherished by the darkness of the night, a tired soul, by * _
amazed. the beauty of the ‘spring morning’

414%

in

>

d

a new red sun was exposed from -_
under the dark, vague strip of the horizon,
but he irresistibly attracts to himself, and Ma.” :]
nit.. A man reaches out to look behind _
horizontal and see everything, rises -
himself on thin, worn-out socks

and tyadsg, constantly ‘pulling for s t
their children in order to introduce them to ^
to your happiness - to a beautiful thing: - r
lucky to see the rising price: =.
the sounds of music, as if taken away, sparkle in
here and there and illuminate in all corners about
amazing panorama... $
_The glorious work ended with music_
Whose evening at the workers' club. Like vsu-.

thoroughly washed, the workers dispersed ©
silently but at home. wet, black, _
in the night air, it seemed to me that they were floating.
godly stars, constantly giving birth.
bright sparks... | d.

to

®

Test of the pen.
4:

One day after class, one of the club members
thrust a piece of paper into my hand, on which I
I saw the following verses: }

“What are you ringing, alarm bell?
“Why are you calling all the young people!”
“Or have you thought of something new?
“Create something great?

“I am calling for help,
“To get the job done

“And found a new world,
“So that you can live freely*.”

I asked the author to read his work
saying out loud to everyone else.

After some hesitation, he agreed.

His example infected others.

A period began in the life of the team in which
who wrote poetry became his most favorite
busyI eat.

Another poet spoke at the center.

It was one of the most energetic organizations
nizers, with enormous will, loving in
championship for everyone. `

Not wanting to give up in front of his comrades, he
spent two nights on end in “creativity” and,
arriving at the club, he stated that they had written
poems.

A crowd immediately gathered around him.

The poet, taking out a piece of paper, began:

“The green alarm beeps, buzzes

“All fashion is calling to itself.
“Friends, let’s go to the young club—
“There happiness awaits us in the future,
“United into a ball together!”

“And we will live there like brothers,
“Let the young force grow stronger”...

With these words he suddenly left in embarrassment.
curled up.
“One more thing is missing,” the servants said.
‚ chatels.
- I know it’s not enough, but I can’t find any...
what I can’t do
- Well, read it again.

“Weaving together into a ball!”

“And we will live there like brothers,

“Let the young force grow stronger”...
``

Silence...
“To serve the people”

The snub-nosed boy unexpectedly interjected,
who had stood silently until now.
° The poet grabbed a pencil to write down
sat, and the author of the impromptu was elated, embarrassed
‚ approval from listeners. .

15>

These were two poets. the only ones that risk
wanting to perform in public.

The rest wrote quietly.

I saw one girl reading something
friends, but despite requests” she
categorically refused to show me the writing
sznoe, s. \

. I.

If you start to understand not what “said”
"is wrong" in these clumsy verses, & in the fact that
those who wrote them “wanted” to say, then we
Let us come to some rather revealing conclusions.

Who did not write such poems as in childhood?
age, and at an older age?

i) what was the content of the previous sti-
howv

“Dad”, “Mama”. “god” in childhood, and since
for years - an unchanging, passionate, passionate love
bow; eyes, lips, etc.

Here we see something completely different,

The object of poetic attempts is “on-
ball“, calling on young people to commit no-*
great and great, “to create a world where people live
brotherly" and service to the people.

Let all this not be realized, let it be like this
the same commonplaces of modern times as they were
before “god” andetc., but they are great
outline the thoughts and aspirations of young people
bowls

The poets intended to publish their pro-
works in some magazine, but they are not accepted
nyali.

This had a cooling effect on their poetry.
chelic fever.

The author of the second poem stopped writing completely,
& the first one writes something else...

B. Mityushin,

New life.

Working youth are increasingly drawn into
got into the club life,

We gathered every day in a special
(in a very nasty room, by the way) and for-
sat until late hours. )

The team grew.

Some, when they came to the club, tried to buy
any knowledge, they took it manually
labor, sometimes for singing, sometimes for books. Others don't
showed such energy.

The club served for them simply as a place to pro-
driving time.

Lack of common interests, common work,
gave this group a disorganized
character. Quarrels, bickering, gossip, all this
was a common occurrence among them. On pre-
position to do anything, it worked out
answers: “very necessary”, “why do we need this”,
“We humbly thank you, and so we work enough”
exactly“ it, d.a

To conscious, working comrades
they looked straight with contempt.

‚

64 to BURN,

No. 4

“What fools.” “And the hunt for such people is empty-
kami to do. On T6 they “intertwine”. .
“I want to rip your throat out.” h

However, the results achieved were infectious
lazy.

A girl or a boy, coming to the club, bra-
they tied the book or joined in the singing.
Embarrassed, ashamed of his former comrades,
who greeted this transition with ridicule and
barbs.

This party of “passive lazy people” is essentially
sti was harmless. One could hope
that the best will eventually get to work
Bot and there will only be a slight ba-
flipper G
But besides them there was also an element of action -
extremely dangerous for those who are not yet strong enough
of our young team.

In the summer, the club's business life weakened. Cha-
yearned for fresh air. We stocked up on
vision and went for a walk on boats or
by rail.

One day, while playing rounders, when
one boy ran at full speed to escape
away from the ballpenetrated, the other pushed him down
leg. The boy fell on the grass. Framed
they scolded my leg, and that’s how it ended,

But this incident made an impression on me.
laziness. Fall to the ground, slaps, tears and
and complaints from the weak against the strong were common
phenomenon, but it all happened “by accident.”
There was consciousness and malice on the face
the seriousness of the act.

It was the first time I saw someone who turned up his leg.
in our companies.

He was a healthy guy of 16 years old with a cocky
facial expression, with impudent, darting eyes
behind and constantly sticking out from under the cap
hair.

During halts people gathered around him
group moving to the side. New member
our company delighted its listeners
anecdotes of the most cynical content,
which were listened to with fascinating
of interest to both adults and boys.

I asked one club player to tell me about
more about this subject.

he's a daring little fellow. Where has he not been?
I just didn’t see anything. First at the factory
worked for us, then worked as a sex worker in a tavern
Neil, then disappeared somewhere. He doesn't have a father
lives with his aunt. He says he was in the war, not
I know if it's true. Now he lives here again,
toget something. Kerenok is always busy.”

It was clear that the new member was beginning to use
be called influence. Oya infected with his removal
brilliance, brashness. His jokes, phrases, words
eternities were thinned out from mouth to mouth. Spoke
he is always dark, wanting to obviously show off
with his wit.

While walking or when returning
from the club, encouraged by everyone's attention,
he gave his tongue complete freedom,

“Kolka,” they asked him, “who is your father?”
- “My father was of clergy, he was in de-

Jealousy robbed the church,” or
Who will we fight with?

"With America"

“And because of what?”

“Yes, she gave us an ultimatum, everyone.”
send girls and women to them, but ours say
that we ourselves are not enough.”

“Will you sing Kolka in the choir?”

“Certainly.”

“Is your voice good?”

“Wonderful; I was silent at Molchanov’s,
I received seventy-five, but how is my voice so far?
hall, and Molchanov refused.”

Then wit moved into the sphere of raz-
gates, sacrileges and all thisequipped with bread
harsh phrases, jokes. Listeners
roared with laughter.

They looked at me triumphantly,
as if wanting to say; “What do you mean, little one?”

It was clear to me that the influence of this
love, in whom the tractor was so clearly reflected
shooting range, area environment, can spoil,
contaminate the fresh sprouts of the nascent

life,

I expressed these thoughts to the organizer
club, a very capable, dedicated person
self-made and respected and loved

bovyu clubists. But what was bad about him—

it is the love of general reasoning.

He responded to my remark with detailed
statement of the principles that guide him
labored in his work, and was repeatedly praised
focusing on various Philosophical systems,
made a fuss:

“The basis of our activity is raising
the masses to the highest level of culture. We don't
must close the doors to the spoiled
people, we are not an institute and not a bourgeois
kindergarten, nata’s task is to straighten, re-
work on their characters, awaken commodities
savage feeling. In this case I am pro-
tive isolation of Katkov (hero's surname), although
he is alien to the proletarian family, but out of sympathy
no one touches such an element
guaranteed, so I think it's very important
correcting the scum of capitalism
building."

“But is our young club strong enough?
flax for this." .

“The proletarian nature is healthy—it will digest
DLai in a team is less dangerous than in a team
touching individuals."

These arguments were generally correct and
coincided with the opinion of the conscious part of the group
lecture, which is very reluctant and only in
in extreme cases resorted to eliminating
Buyanov.

The harmful influence of Katkov and his party
became especially noticeable when the life of the club
got back into the old business rut.

Autumn has come. I felt the desire
get to work as soon as possible. They said:

“Summer is over, let’s start studying, isn’t it {

like now." Katkov himself did nothing and
used all his influence to dissuade
others.from work.

he simply hated work; his dis-
rotated nature is not translatedArivala business
situation and order. Together with his partner

No. 4

——-

he sought out all sorts of ways to
to go to work. They became more and more impudent.
© someone will run up and grab the keys-
am while singing, they will gather in the next
room and create a hubbub.
Katkov was never found guilty
in all these tricks. He knew how to hide
behind the backs of his comrades.
tried to talk to him, but nothing
I'm out.
“Once I gave him a sharp blow in front of everyone.
fussing about some prank.
He listened in silence, with an impudent smile,
_| ‘Tom replied, turning to the exit:
“Thank you for the instruction, much appreciated.”
_| you are free to say goodbye, at the rehearsal you will see
_ Let’s have fun.”
E The whole gang of brawlers followed him.
During the next lesson I noticed a new
reading. It was clear where it was coming from. My business is
| Severe comments were met from the students
°| Cove objections, often very sharp, why
_| never happened before. during breaks they me
-] somehow avoided me, I said: “We’ve been through enough
_—that’s enough, it’s not the old regime anymore,” etc.
28 Leaving the club, I directly asked about the
| Chive today's behavior and discontent.

Completely unfounded claims: why

'I pay more attention to boys
’ What about girls, why am I doing it with one
m more with others less, “I find fault” with
| I don't pay attention to behavior

_ others, etc. p.

and tried his best to prove that he was wrong.
`the validity of these accusations and convince that
the difference between the old and new regime is
about | The key is not at all that then it is impossible
I, ’ was disgraceful, but now it’s possible, etc.

_^ _ The debate acquired a sharp character. I once-
th Stuck around and tried to shout over their voices
° | The cops who objected to several
'' tholos. Our street dispute stopped
®—passers-by.

— | It seemed to me that I convinced and we raced
‘Writing by example. ‹
in the conscious part of the collective, which

_’ paradise expanded and grew stronger, it was clear that
(| Katkov’s organizing influence interferes
to the correct flow of club life.
$| penetrated more and more into consciousness
® The need for close organization and strict

Arish discipline.

_ Representatives of this direction led
It's energetic. They appointed general meetings
'Niya, they abruptly cut off those who behaved badly -
| 9they explained why they were gathered here; th-
| They warned that if things went like this, they would never
We will achieve equality and brotherhood.

°_ Some of these words found their way into the
Souls, life seemed to be getting better. But
| The warring party threw out some
New trick, launched new slander and thus
Destroyed the fruits of beneficial influence.

In the life of the team there is a very noticeable reflection
_ The momentum of this struggle was tightening. When I run
_ “if there was business influence, then everything went as planned

BURN.

The Ubists began to express various co-'

_65

oil, felt friendship, mood. ra-
work and vice versa there were days when nothing
didn’t go well, behaved disgustingly, quarrels
and the squabbles became more frequent. The need to dis-
The captains say everything obvious,

On this occasion one of. workers - young
a man, about 16 years old, said this:

“Oh, and it’s a hard thing to live in a new way.
There is no stick, but without it this is what happens. A. after all
how you want to arrange everything as it should; to
the club was “real” so that the orchestra was
and choir and reading, manual labor so that everything goes
it's in full swing. I want friendship
there was camaraderie, but here’s what comes out.
I thought a lot about all this, I didn’t sleep at night
and this is my opinion. Freedom - freedom, &
Still, we can’t do without a stick, we haven’t grown enough
there should be. Just let there be a stick, then’
this one is friendly, even though it hurts
He’ll beat you, but the pain is pleasant.” ;

The others thought the same.

The “stick” began to take effect. To the hooligan-
harsh measures began to be applied to those in power,
they were kicked out, not taken to the theater, etc.
The enemies did not give up and continued to cause mischief.
Ovi was blocked by the boards at the end of the lesson
door, damaged the wires, but still could not
break the energy. Work, despite the obstacles
action continued.

Feeling powerless and angry and hesitant
enter into an open fight,the enemies have begun
act on the sly.

There was a difficult moment in the life of the Club when
this gang, prowling the surrounding area, staged a
drop per teenager, especially energy.
a geeky disciplinarian, this outrageous
the tragic incident had a positive effect on everyone
teatishly. From that moment on we began to accompany
living in remote areas. Hooligans
after this act they did not appear in the club
and thus gave us the opportunity to breathe
freer,

Why weren’t there any rules against hooligans?
Have repressive measures been taken? - they will ask. .

The question of this has been raised several times.
But the fact is that there were no such measures in
at our disposal.

Close the club?

But this would mean complete capitulation.
We would play into the hands of the hooligans who
with full right they could say: “victory
ours."

Request assistance. authorities. I

We tried, a member of the cultural and educational
department gathered the club members, explained
fulfilled the purpose of the club, developed a whole
gram of behavior, for failure to comply with some
howl threatened (sadly) to close
club Needless to say that during the speech
the most meek of all were the notorious thugs -
catchers. The speaker, in all sincerity,
ity, did not change the position of the

hey.
did you feel that repression and inspection
tor visits are useless, which is better
In this case, they can reach the old one
school, stupid order; in other words
They will not heal diseases, but will only drive them inside...

We understood that the means could be
only those actions and measures that originated

zi consciousness of the collective itself.

After some time, the hooligans again
began to show up at the club and promised not to
misbehave. After some hesitation
they were accepted.

At first they seemed to get down to business.
Even Katkov himself sat with contemptuous
smile, one lesson with domra, but that’s all...

Without taking part in the work, they are all rowdy
it was as if they had calmed down and did not interfere with the under-
swear.

The reason for this change soon became clear.

Once arriving to class earlier than scheduled
time, I saw quite a large company
nyu for cards.We played “twenty-one”, accompanied
usual terms: “give more”, “enough”
etc. with curses and exclamations.
When they saw me, some threw down their cards, but

,
_

No. 4

Katkov shouted at them and the game continued.

las,
Soon the results of the new
second lesson. Cases of pro-

the toy is not only “all pay”, but even

clothes and various things. Needless to say
that the lion's share ended up in Katkov's pocket.

A conscious group fought against this
new evil. At the general meeting, despite
to protests and indications for freedom time-
spending time in the club, a resolution was adopted
tion prohibiting the game.

The gamblers began to take revenge.

But soon Katkov disappeared, no one knows where
completely from the area. His party continued, su-
exist, but acted weakly and gradually
foam decomposed. In the conscious group,
a new and strong ally has appeared: reached
the results of club work, which
over time became more and more
more noticeable.

But more on that another time.

- V. Mityu shi.

|

FINE DEPARTMENT.

Hellenic Doric temple.

Before us is the Greek Middle Ages. This
the era of the feudal aristocracy, the great `co-
lonial conquests and triumphant
fight against the hostile forces of nature and
foreigners, This is the time of unification
aspirations in the Hellenic nation, the time of ro-
man's amazing awareness of everything m) -
thickness, thus signifying
final anthropomorphization *) of religion
gii. The gods who were once only personifications
deterioration of various elements of nature, aging
become humanoid, forming signs
I am changing the family of Olympians. And if further
the sea itself, for example, was a deity, “then
now it only reveals that I am creative

‚ the power of a good god; not the fruit of the land of the Commonwealth

nen, and that invisible mysterious current ro-

O hundred, who everywhere emanates from the Mother-

The earth, eternal and omnipotent, will not forget-
We dem that the welfare of this time, co-
the eye almost completely dominates the natural
ral economy depends, mainly
zom, from the products of the earth. True, almostva in

tion is meager, it produces little bread; but
beautiful fruit trees in abundance
We'll find it here. Olives and figs - daily

° a favorite dish of the Hellenes. Moor and Ilalal

gave him shade in hot weather. By the tree
a transparent spring lurks - such a huge
a blessing in a water-poor country. Nezogda,

one Altic legend tells,

In those time immemorial, when Athens
just lining up, Posseidol and Athena
They argued over supremacy over the city. Not
“Having come to what, they turned to the court

*) Anthropomorphization - “likening a person”
century", anthropomorphic "relngia-religion,

whose gods are created in the image and likeness of man
prisoner

/55;

the most eminent Athenian men. And as a sign
mercy of Posseida with a wave of the trident,
Tses gave the city a cold spring as a gift;
Athena struck an olive with a spear. Not for long
citizens deliberated; their unanimous acceptance
in the dialect of the divine dispute was decided in
favor of Athena. Hellenes with a feeling of deep-
side gratitude goes to the gods
your homeland; the mighty 'oak they dedicate
to the supreme visionary Zeus, the olive tree -
Afipe, laurel - Apollo, fig tree
—Demeter and Dionysus.

But time passed, consciousness demanded hal-
anyone's understanding of religion, advanced in
the need to see the gods, concretized
them in living images, for the former are vague
and blurry silhouettes were not satisfactory.
That sacred *) culture was born,
This is how the first idols of the Olympians appeared.
But already in the palaces these
Jumirs: the memory of the Aegean monarchies has sunk
at the urgency. The public has been blunted by
their rights, subordinating rural life to re-
ligious rite. And, taking into account
what has been said before, we will not at all
surprised when we learn that the grove has become
sacred place in Greece. Yes, there, in
this round dance of those dear to the Hellenic heart
trees, the divine will was happening, you
were the merciful gifts of the gods. Grove
became "the dwelling place of God, the dwelling place of his ku-
peace. The slender ones rise proudly into the sky
There were many trees, the shalrova was green at the top
roof, branches and leaves, & around in tor-
The priests coped with tin joy
prfestivals, sacrifices were made,
there were prayers. : |

*) Sacred—speaking © sacred, from.”
related to religious cult.

5%
68

Meanwhile, history took its course.

Trade gradually developed, ' natu-
the real economy was replaced by a monetary one,
seaports and steel market centers
acquire more and more items
nia. Differentiation of labor led to the formation
the vocation of the trade and craft classes.
The population began to grow uncontrollably
to the cities, which have since become the focus
national culture. They moved here -
the landed aristocracy was also ex-
reaping the fruits of new forms of social
life, transferring your habits to the city,
swap ideals and beliefs. Ancestral
sovereignty demanded resettlement and reli-

hyotic cult. Yielding to economic non-
necessity, the gods also had to
abandon your place of residence. And now—perod
Hellenes faced a difficult question: how to
to reconcile two different principles, how to create
a new, but worthy abode for the gods,
but breaking, however, with tradition. After all, in
in fact: there were houses in the city, but not
there were groves; in the name of the city, it was impossible from
overthrow the house, in the name of the former, I don’t want to
elk to break with the grove. So gave birth to an idea
house-grove, from which, as from a grain No.
wall, dug a Doric temple.

It was not far to walk behind the house. U veoh
before our eyes still towered the old home-
Rovsky palaces with their luxurious "megars" -
us”, these richly decorated main
our halls and vestibules, open ©
one side. How natural it was
build a dwelling for God, following the example already

t.

No. 4

consecrated
kings!

The main part of the Doric temple is “intact”
la" was created. And now it's only worth it
surround it with numerous columns,
which, after all, also remained from the royal
times; but if first their purpose is consistent
stood only in supporting architectures
ceilings, now they should have risen
to remember the land who moved to the city
business about groves of sacred trees (see.
fig. 1). The Greek name of the temple itself is
te$ (neb) or 7406 (naos), as confirmed
nalnelinguistic interpretation occurs
from the root ta,/Po (nafo), denoting dre-
Demon trunk *).

Only one question could stop the nay
we follow the previous presentation: why for
expressing the idea of a tree the Greeks resorted to
marble? But the thing is that it's like
It won't happen. {Archeolsgiche kiz raskogh 1
© convincing visualization for now, or that
The first temples of Hellas were made of wood.
The sequence turned out to be consistent,
and only later, when the pergo-
pathetic motives and ‘appeared to be
ity in greater strength of buildings, ‘©
on the one hand, in luxury and grandeur
another, noble marble was recognized
the only worthy material for <
buildings of the divine dwelling. However,
ancient Doric temple (Hera in Olim-
pi) until the 2nd century after R.H. 60-
kept one of his wooden columns
unreplaced! And further analysis itself
will convince us of the authenticity of the indicated evolution
lucia,

Already the most ‘general view of the external
the appearance of the Doric temple (see Fig. 2)
allows us to distinguish four main
parts; floor—stylobate © leading to it
steps, a circumferential colonnade - perilte -
grew, above it there was a three-part belt - ambidextrous -

folk legend’ hero-

*) №&0$ means ship; then the promise
that the same root underlies both
tree trunk, and the ship, explains
by the fact that primitive ships-planes were made
from tree trunks. The name (tsev-
the central part) of the temple "ship" meets
and not only among the Greeks: in a Gothic temple
there is a middle and two side “ships”—
according to him. "568". Therefore, the wordsmith kovavie auto-
ra, connecting the very words “7406” with “forest”,
therefore, it does not seem sufficiently convincing
telny, (Note, ed.).

Rice. 2.

ment and, finally, crowning the building with two
rocky roof, in the east and west
connecting with the cornice triangular fields of the front-
tones Inside the colonnade, in the middle of the temple,
cella is placed - ‘oblong zel,
solid, windowless walls of which
with their ‘continuation they form a predreri> -
pronaos. We're going ininto it past two cozn,
and from here through the door into the cella itself. Here
at the back wall in the mysterious twilight:.e
a statue of a deity rises. Western No.
the side of the cella is usually adjacent to the temple
treasury—opisthodomos.

But let's go outside. Let's turn to
what I say loudest to the Elite feeling
to the column (see Fig. 3). She is her husband
calmly carries the block on itself. e;
No wonder, in other cases the tracks were replaced
its male statues of “atlalls”, protavs-
supplying them to Ionic girls - “yu-
ram". The Doric rod has no expectation" -
wash our stands or bases. Like de-
. roar, he grows nepseredotveni” from the article -
yubata, gradually tapering upward.
To the top? Yes, and this is not at all surprising.
pours in. And between the hey magnificent palaces
Whose Aegean time the column narrowed

RR 7 H

downwards (see Fig. 4). This seems unclear -
nom. But let us remember that then he was a tree
withered, and we add that the wooden support
bears the main burden at the top
his part: this is still being talked about
The legs of the current chairs are missing. Our
The present, however, broke with such ideas
piami; for the sake of principle and traditions n'obho-
it was possible to sacrifice technical capabilities
amenities; expanding upward, the column does not
could meet the wishes of the ex ©o-
Lyanina. Very soon, however, the architect
managed to completely satisfy himself. When
making the transition from wooden architecture
quality to stone, the indicated contra-
the speech was dimmed. gu

But here a new difficulty arose:
Lonia turned out to be too big. and her
I’ll have to make it up from several half-
cylinders connected to each other, destroyed
thereby saving the impression of the former integrity...
sti. This did not bother the ancient Greek;
knowing perfectly well the physiological law of vision
Niya, he cut through the cylinders from top to bottom
vertical recesses - lore channels
mi and immediately achieved a double effect:
the surface of the column became reminiscent of wood
70

cortex, and at the same time the eye is observing
body, deceived by the optical illusion, used
certainly slid along it, carried away by the str-
disgustingby the rise of spicy krasv cannas--
lura (who wants to ‘make sure it’s correct
analysis given here, sing arr--

a

Rice; 8,

pay attention to the colonnade of Moscow
Museum of Fine Arts). Ital, the task would be
la resha. However, as often happens,
the solution gave birth to a new problem: cann'li-
straightening, made the column dry and straight
Maina. There was only one last resort left, and
the artist resorted to him. At the height of three
the architect quenched him with quarters of the rod,
forming the so-called entasis." "How
would pause for a second in my
striving upward, column vn vy energetically
straightened, bringing the rod to the top
its capitals.

This latter unwittingly leads to
bewilderment. We brought another to life. Where is
leaves and branches that could have been seen
to me, symbolizes with particular clarity
grow a plant? There are none of them. And, I’ll take a deep breath-
little ones, we finally comprehend the archu-
tectonic plan. The Hellenes knew that
the leaves are okay, but they can swell, huh?
the heaviness of hiding will be a moment,
them, and the bell tower. n> merging with chromium, hundred.

BURN.

No. 3

no, just a piecemeal invention of whim-
livid fachtasia, Not only that: after all, it’s not
only the columns - the whole temple wanted to see the
growing and alive. Not arithmetic
sum of trees, & organically united re-
now,—tazhov was the idea of the Doric archi-
tector. True, then he will lose his
present sense; it will happen then
when the class struggle creates individual
new insecurity when it prevails
desire for sensory pleasure when
the destructive Corinthian will appear on the stage
Chinese style. Now del is achieved and:acho.
How? We will soon see this for ourselves. Kzligel

and thus receives the only
purpose - to connect the column with the rest
elements of the building. Its first part,
darling-okhin, gradually expanding square-
xy, constitutes an imperceptible and›transition‹t neck and
rod to the second part, sleepy chegyre-
coal plate - abasche. She slightly
comes forward, and our gaze, as if in
steps, rises to the lower belt of the az-
tablet - to a smooth polose - archi-
grass Its massiveness gives it away.
This is the wooden beam that was never
placed on columns and walls and which is

was a natural support for the ceiling. ‘Arch-.

tector just received a technical note
from wood to marble. eyes several instantaneously
Kenya enjoys relaxing on the flat

Rus. 4

surface of the architrave so that now
enrich yourself with a new variety of artistic
real. impressions. Above the architrave
the second belt of the entablature is missing - a sign
ty Doric frieze. Op consists across
s from a number of speakers straight away

—trigli ditch, dreamed by two loleys
EE EB E

Fig.

and bounded on the sides by two half-
other vertical recesses. and from
quadrangular plates—metope. Here it is
The religious origin of the temple is done
even clearer. 'Triglyphs located above
'by every column and every space
between them, there appears nothing
other than the ends of those former longitudinal
and cross beams, which were laid in silt
architrave, making up the flooring of the ceiling; ms-
tops are the spaces between trigli-
Families shielding themselves from the cold and rain
record&mi. Let's look under the triglyphs I we
we will find significant confirmation of ° skha
interesting; there are pre-debt d" -
cheeks with a row of hanging down to 1-
pel--reg. These are nail heads, they are k›-
were they fastening wood somewhere? beams. Ling
one thing remains unexplained: why sex
have you achieved triglyphs? But, bree in
look at the columns ‘and ext. ve moving on to the fries.
So, we still feel the same basic plan.
These cutouts constitute a continuation of the can-
non-lur. Emphasizing the aspiration for the ice.
them, they report in a loud voice"
horizontal plane a/..“yulem pta, '

The temple continues to grow. Triglyphs lead
you to the car protruding slightly forward
izu. Underneath it there are again long dots:
cheeks < drops - mutuli, once, formerly
the thin ends of wooden fasteners. Above ka”-

the roof rises from below, and it would seem
it's done. But no. There must be a plan
slaughtered, conceived and brought to life. Va
case is accepted plastic. The final cher-
pizzas nmaternity belts take the form
palm leaves. The same leaves were met
sometimes they hide for us on the upper part of the roof
ii, above the froitons. The goal has been achieved.
The limiting horizontal line has been destroyed.
The temple has grown. He is alive, he is completely dynamic,
it is truly a house-grove (see Fig. 5).
The completion however remains incomplete.
We have forgotten about God. A Nazi was built in his name
temple, the outside should also talk about it
appearance of the building. Skulshtuta was calculated on-
the power of Hellas. Empty spaces of gables and
She filled the motorbike with her creations. Bo-
the divine power should have been praised
these creatures. There is power in the might of the gods
people, and the words of the people are the glory of the gods.
And the Greek remembered the ancient victories over
strangers, © titanic struggle with
nature. What could be stronger and better. pre-
increase the invincibility of paschio ‘al togo du-
ha? About which with great enthusiasm lyu-
did they tell you the Hellenic rapheods? Bor-
ba gods’ © giants, battles between sins and ama-
zonks, sriya with the cortaurs, courageous
great exploits of the Liberator—Gerakhl,
Yang events are wonderful subjects for
sculptural letenkhs and myths, in which
72 | BURN,

for the first time tangibly - visibly 0>-
the gi approached. to people, patronizing
them. guarding them (see Fig. bi7.
Monochrome marble of the Elli ruins of the
affects us only with its forms and shapes
niyami. And yet, painstaking research
experts have proven that once
Greek temples spoke the language of paint,
With it the Hellenes covered pediments and phrases,
sims in acroteria, multi-colored life-bearing
reviving the cold monotony of marble.
This is lost for us, and lost forever.
Changing time has washed away the paint from the Greek
chesky temple. But let's strain ours a little

Fig. 6.

attention, re’esemya for two and a half
thousands of years ago—and we will reach, although
partly, all the charm of these red
visions of Hellas.

This is how the Doric temple was created.
Once we look at him we are involuntarily surprised
due to the extraordinary harmony of everything
th structures, proportional and merged
the integrity of its parts. Usually asked: kah
did the tracks manage to achieve this? And most often
refer to the incomprehensibility of human
th genius. But the point is that the most
ros put incorrectly’:0. The man is able to
no way to do 806, just give it to him for this
opportunity and necessary conditions. Vogue
“Why should the question be formulated in the same way?”
che: why were the Greeks able to achieve mention-
harmonious? And he gave us an answer -
the whole structure of their social life lives on.
The very nature of the south predisposes to life

her lackey lag 4

on the street; Southerners are still the smallest part
They carry out the research with crowbars. In Greece this applies
connected. fragmentation of the territory, co-
which created many small azton-based companies
schin, which closely confronted personality with personal
ity and prevented sharp classi-
owl isolation. And the Greek sits a little
at home. After all, lamas, in the square, there was
everything that occupies his thoughts. On
people gather in the open air 0-
scolding, owls quarreling outdoors
trade deals, philosophical discussions are conducted
chickpeas, gymnastics and mushi occur.
chesio competitions and games. And only many
colored porticos provide coolness in hot weather
dets and coverage in rainy weather. Co.

Fig. 7.

To all that has been said, let’s add one more thing:
extremely important note: thanks to 060-
according to historical conditions. Greece 1 and when"
I did not know the closed caste of priests. Easier
speaking, the cult was a matter of every desire -
no matter what. Not a church altar, but a sacrificial
nickname in the square, not far from the temple,—
here is the center of the religious rite of Hellas.
Not the house of worshipers, but the dwelling of the deity—
This is the inner meaning of the Greek sacred
nogo architecture. It’s unusual for ‘nae oto:
we even often call the temple “self-
rum." Things will be different in Greece. El-
Linsky architect, on the contrary
at least Egyptian, was not forced without-
Of course, stretch the temple in length and shi:
rin to accommodate folk masks
you; in front of him ‘there were not numerous ar-
hitectonic difficulties; in his mind
nie, all his talent goes into caring ©
BURN.

73

appropriate proportionate parts of qi
the whole. Finally,in the Doric temple
were not disturbed by extraneous influences that created
for example, iolic drain. Ol' hard
upholding tradition, why not
dividing in particular, not sneaking anywhere
unnecessary decorations; to instructive language -
was its basic principle. History before
ric architecture © persuasive on-
clearly shows us how, as
mastery of the material and laziness. Y sun› so-
more perfect and perfect prov: delay this
princes; as co-expressed more and more energetically
lost its task of support; whatever is better
front-end components were subordinated to inig and me-
warm reliefs to general lines and flat
to the building, without, however, losing its sa-
heavy soaking,

Slender and whole, Doric
the temple was flesh from the Greek helot. B
any details determined as viewed
we, with the entire historical development of Hellas, -
it was a living organism, a kind
noah and close to the ancient Greek. Last
I saw in him the embodiment of his best ideas.
fishing and dreams.

Snow-white temple, colorful at the top
purple paint of life and energy and
contrasting blue color
Leba, - didn’t he serve the great 0b-
a unifying symbol of national power and
culture, instilling awe and respect—in

foreigners, reverence and feeling of gr.

much confident dignity—in the Hellenes.

B. Arvatov.

AMENDMENT. Due to an unfortunate misunderstanding, in Figure 3 in Arvatov’s article “Ellin-

The “Poric Temple” is depicted in the Ionic order instead of the Doric one.

__ 8. Editorial.

Student's drawing Visually: about the Department,

.

b
6
o
r
E
„3
[=
|
Y
5
Y
>
E
2
E
4

Drawings

Drawing by a student of the Fine Arts Department.
at the MUSIC DEPARTMENT.

, we
|
|
&
VARSHAKYANKA.
U
harmonization K.
soprano. HER
alto. FOR
} in
#
|
}
| =
r at”: I
| CJSC ———6N0 OPPESSED. into battles
|
|
; | at
==E:E
= m value
` = ]
|
t 4" ki. E +: -4
{t
ol an #7 E 7 [ g. < —
\a: =>” 3: E:
BURN.

No. 4

Va.

{+

ZNA - k= RR

= va - ch1 8 yes ta: aeEoh

y : + Y
=
. o
with * <
| same - „k.
EN HER: t
, : z
| 7: and ^
: =. :: t g e in
o y: =: = : E = EVE
ZNA —— Ml be-li -com bop-5y ALLnA” RO - DOB, for LUCH-SHII No., A 659ya-
och” le sig,
tr >. 2 2 : - -—- { ;
- -. speech paste ‘1 : :
p == e=-^ > E: .
I.
4._
U oe == = k
2 t - ge E a -
, y g 49 re =: = a 3 74
E you ® k ‘a x $ —_ sy m: > E k k:
3".

TU—No. SsVOBOAU na

G.

y Yo.
MARSH, MARCH 8PEGED vi o - chi

ut!

s:
k.
= < = m g.

BIBLIOGRAPHY,

N. G. POMYALOVSKY. Essays on bursa.

Publishing house Vser. Center. Spanish Committee of the Sov.
R.S.KiK.D. No. 3. Moscow, 1918. 260 pp.
Price 1 rub 60 kopecks.

Yellow familiar cover. Pocket for-
mat books. “Universal Library” for
changed to “Shared Library”. Instead of "published"
"Antik and K9" is "Published by Ts.I.
Com,* You involuntarily remember the past many-
numerical editions of the “Universal Library”
swelling“, in most translations of light French
Tsuz, English literature, yellowing
in the windows of all bookstores and kiosks,
lazily leafed through by bored intellectuals
Ghent on trams and trains.

And there was so little serious Russian literature
ratures. Published small innocent productions
eating of L. Tolstoy, Pushkin, Lermontov and
etc. were not satisfied and were few in number

s.. And especially now the request
on Russian classics of fiction
tours and social thought has grown enormously
new sizes.

The thirst is insatiable.

Some peasant libraries `us
read hundreds of brochures in their catalog and
books on socio-political and economic
questions and barely a dozen on art
Russian literature, which, in my opinion,
nia; you need to know first.

Welcomed the publications of classics Publishing House,
Ts.I. Committee, but after the publication of op. Zhu-
kovsky, Krylov - together with comrade. Sosnovsky
from Pravda was indignant and fearful with trepidation
I was waiting, as if at such a time, for a sharp, bookish
hunger did not appear for Derzhavin or for him
nice

Agree, comrade. reader, as for me and for you
@ present tense (I emphasize) is more important
read Nekrasov, Chernyshevsky, L. Tolsto-
go, Turgenev, Dobrolyubov, but not Lomono-
owl.

‘$

Buy openly at an affordable price, not
from under the counter of Sukharev’s “Pharisee” on
50/› deare.

I don’t know what kind of participation Ts.I. takes.
K. in the said publishing house "Antik and Co";
if it’s guiding, then I’m afraid that it won’t
followed the path of the former publishing house “Antik and K9*,
if not, and the inscription on the cover “Because of C, I,
K.“ there is only a meaningless mark
nationalization, then you need to send “Izda-vo”
along the right beneficial path towards
demands of the working masses. >

New accessible edition of “Essays on Bursa”
N. G. Pomyalovsky only needs a prize
vat.

N. G. Pomyalovsky “Essays on the Bursa”® reveals
presses before us the ulcers of a closed, fenced-
noah, illiterate Russian theological school——
seminary, from which came venerable “from-
tsi" of the church.

But the damned cramming of sciences, against which
the swarm rises with a scourging word Pomyalovsky
I was in more than one bursa. She's soaked in the blood
and the flesh of all our former Russian pedagogy
all educational institutions.

Currently, when in Soviet Russia
these are springing up everywhere: Labor schools and in
the foundation of their activities is invested in studying
sciences on new principles and techniques - we
you need to keep open the book of N. G. Remembrance
Lovsky “Essays on Bureya”.

The book was published neatly. The print is clear. Price
not great. Disadvantage: lack of biography
physical essay: extra 8 - 10 pages
would introduce the reader to the life and activities of
writer's ability.

S. 0-h.

chivemneryu
PETER ORESHIN. Red Rus'. Poetry.
Ed. All-Russian Center. Spanish Com. Sov. R.S.K. and
K. Dep. Moscow. 1918 Price 2 rubles. 50 k.
Despite the fact that in his book “Red
Rus'“ P. Oreshin ` pretend to be exclusive
8o

strictly a peasant poet, he moved away from
modern village.

In the “Village Songs” department, where he is more
bright and strong, he gives old rehashes; true
talentedly performed, but only that, And such
“popular expressions” such as: “you can’t do it”,
“sick”, “daring”, etc. - just more
cool the impression more, and when he,
touching on modern times, he says:

Haunts the foggy field

At midnight, disturbing dreams;
Brave for happiness and freedom
Native sons are curling,

it feels like the author is in these fields
no, he is not there even where he isthere are native sons.
He's out of the way. And there is nothing unnatural about this -
natural, since the author is a peasant. This
very significant and inevitable.

I'll burn out like a month,
Like a month, I miss you in the night...

No matter how his poems scream about the villages, feeling
It is clear that the author not only left
tree, but will never return to her:
True, it is still far from the city, but the city—^
his haven, the struggle is his achievement.

He is now, in the future. department,
turns towards the village with an open
hatred, and does not speak, but rather growls.

: "Rolod
the atmosphere is menacing and strict.
In the villages his orders -
Listen country:
- Don’t let the city, peasant,
nothing,
Not a grain.
The order was executed exactly:
Peasants do not bring bread.
In the villages there is tsyavetvo and laughter,
Burning stacks of fresh bread, drunk.

Here in another poem “In the Village”:

Outside the village, in a tavern for no reason |
revelry, -

Rubles rustle dryly behind the counter,
The guy went on a spree, his wallet was unzipped,
What is the grief of his native land to him?

“Before us is a genuine revolutionary, but
A lonely revolutionary. For the peasant
this is inevitable for a poet, and Oreshin is a poet. ^

In the slightly earlier published book “Glow”

BURN.

No. 4.

——ы—ы=—ы—ы—ы———ыы—=ы——“ы—-—ы-—ы=——

P, Oreshin gave us a pink village and Mr.
ny city. Both the city and the village in their own way
in relation to the ongoing revolution. ahh
1-1 year changed little. City and then
I was starving, I was living and then there was no bread. Iame-
Consequently, P. Oreshia himself came forward. And g1o
should be welcomed, because, I repeat,
Oreshin is a poet. And the city is now having a harder time
The village needs time more than the village.

There is a lot of pain in Oreshin; a lot of joy.
It's burning. There is a lot of sincerity in it,
The truth is convincing. He is peculiarly handsome.
Technically strong. In flagellating verses
caustic and angry, like a revolutionary. This is ets
pros.

Cons? There are many connections in this book.
Excessive imitation of tree language. Not-
God plays a justifiably large role, the 60th
mother and numerous saints. where,
although rarely, something creeps in
wine, Klyuev and even from the cheeky Shi-
ryaevtsa. In some places they are blindingimages, too
they are awarded in some places
on a friend.

The book was published well. The price is not expensive

Wok.

Gevny "Songs in the edition of V. Ts. I. N.

+

To a number of illiterate and completely difficult

compiled by ra‘:personal revolutionary gi-

new songs and songs that have appeared recently

and continuing to appear, you can pr-
list a number of similar images
publications of the All-Russian Central Ispod-
of the independent Committee of the Councils of the R.S.K. and K.
Deputies. With sadness you look at those lying
in front of you are arrangements of songs (“Red
Banner", "Warsaw", "Communist
Marseillaise“) and the International Hymn, and
you ask yourself: why are you investing in this?

publishing so much ineptitude and sloppiness? at

I will no longer talk about bad paper and
press, - the best, perhaps, at present
time is not always easy to achieve with rush-
performance, but unforgivably uncountable
a large number of errors appearing in the photo
tepian party: anaki with the keys almost
everyone is mixed up, the tails of the quarters and the eighth
sheks are often caught turned in the wrong direction
proper side, accompaniment almost #56.
time does not match the melody. Arrangements®
illiterate, ugly, inconvenient.

BURN: 81

To perform on the piano such “scriptures”, “? First, it is important to work through the culture of the past
It's still not possible with this type of printing.

: critically understand it and as a result
Printed (for some reason according to the old spelling)

fi) the text of “Songs” is placed all separately
from the notes - on another page, and if 6ш® to-
add to this what appears in places in the mu-
musical part some distortion of the me-
Lodni, then an attempt to sing these songs in chorus
the notes will not be doubled. Price of each copy
from the listed songs - 10 kopecks. I think
that this publication was intended for the general public
kih No. 86 of the proletariat to introduce
it with the music of resolution songs n give
it is possible for him to learn them. Y
if Vseross. Center. Spanish Com, really
had this goal in mind, then pado ‘would be 000-
beino skillfully and carefully give it away, carefully
really concernedboth external and internal
the third side of the published songs and hymns.
And it would be very simple to do this well:
you just had to contact one of the
Music Departments, or Moscow. Span-
cult (Theater - Music Section),
or Commissariat of People's Enlightenment
specialist - there would be musicians there
a lot. It would have been painted and beautiful, easily
and liftable accompaniment, would be true
melodies saved, more would have been taken

convenient keys for choir performance,
but so many mistakes would have been made and not-*
sloppiness. And the task set by the Executive

by the Exclusive Committee for publications of all
of the above-mentioned works, I would decide
simple, easy and correct.

Ansh, Dianov.

NEWSLETTER OF LIFE93NI. Policy results,
science, literature and art. 1918
Nos. 1-7 ed. All-Russian Central
Executive Committee. Moscow. By 128
page The price of each number is 5 rubles.

After the All-Russian co-conference, the fly-by
Some prominent comrades gathered for cults
workers, leaders and founders of this for-
we are a labor movement. Among a number of questions
began to debate especially sharply and vividly
Question about the type of journal you need. Tsvari-
cabbage soup workers recalled the role in
their development was played by the fat Marcoiots
, Oshi said: we only need

L, where We outline new questions and
where we present the experiments of our creativity.
No, apart from such a huge platform, I need
more * other. We sell what drove you

166.

“‘to assimilate such criticism is precious, that

was contained in it. In addition, the newspaper
the mayfly does not satisfy us. We need
from time to time take stock of what
we have lived, what we have conquered and what we have changed
was all around us. Needed from time to time
look back and look around.
Further the conversation will become more lively and lively, and
everyone speaks out; the video hurt my soul,
One says, “and with questions about @natural science
I would like to meet you sometime,” another
inserts, “here was the capital’s anniversary of Tur-
Geneva, & I have never met anywhere
father, barking a picture of life and yourscredentials
this wonderful person.” Nati flew by
cult magazines but can be hidden
to all the questions. “And the darkness is among the new
of the younger generation, the third will be horrified, “we must
create a magazine for broad self-education
nia".

As a result of these conversations and many demands
a number of comrades were entrusted with the task of carrying out
draw up the required program for the planned
wide magazine. :

It is advisable to quickly install a ground two-
a week or a month with large white
letristic pronunciations, introducing

“connected with the culture of past times and people,
celebrating all anniversaries and commemorations. In it

the entire culture must be fully illuminated,
and not only artistic and literary,
why questions of precise and applied av-
nia, 3 different and questions of natural science should
be given a lot of space. In view of desire
sum up, need articles, drawing
work in one or another area of our council -
socialist construction, according to
echoed in a number of systematic reviews
and current life in all its manifestations
the path traveled. .

And it is precisely the desires of the comrade workers with
the publication of the “Messenger of Life” partly
satisfied, His task is to “suspend
these are the results of what was done in October
Russian revolution - to make a selection
give a theory to what has already been achieved
and the practice of young forms of proletariat-peasants-
skogo life*. And it must be said that the task
this magazine is largely
filled up. It’s just a shame that you’re not in it...
dporzhannosti proletarian point Arevia, &
often carried out confused. look 'about iolom

$
va_BURN,

No. 3-3

worker-peasant life (especially ska"
is called in the article - an anthology of pro-Leurs -
populist (71) poets), with the exception of this-
Well, the content of the magazine is exactly what it says
according to the requirements of the review magazine. Our ivdus-
real devastation is due to the fact that reviews
are late, but the line of such reviews is chronological
the editors planned it correctly.

V1№ highlights the memoirs of M. Ol-
minogo-nestor of the communist party,
article by Dvolaitsky ‚06 imp.ialism". Ikte-
eyelashes, although largely spores
articles by the late Comrade Zalovsky, Especially va-
Women’s department - “New things in life”, that’s exactly what I’m giving.”
giving us the burns and chronicles we so need—High-
ty Council of National Economy, N. Krylenko.
Revolutionary Tribunal, A. Rural
economic communes, Review of social
sky movement on Zalade, etc. Especially
hollow and valuable is the bibliography department, where © is used
the representation is given by the drawing completeness
© all upcoming interesting books and journals
izlah, .

The second issue sums up the annual
dictatorship of the proletariat in Russia. M. Olmin-
sky draws fnguru t. Lennn, anakomya new
Zeptov of communism with the vicissitudes of life and
the work of the leader of the world revolution, & then
the reader's whole life of advice passes before him -
Russian Russia for the year, only the review is missing
external relations and military events. Pere.
there is no need to count articles, since they
all written by comrades standing in the center
Soviet work. Richly presented in 2 no.
as before, and the bibliographic department, with
what are the scientific literature reviews given?
tours (book celebration, new trial in literature"
unified labor school).

Thus, we see that the second
half of the workers' wishes have been fulfilled,
just sleep more for life, and not
be several months late. Remains
wish that the magazine would straighten out its
nyu, did not mix left-wing socialist-revolutionary
Povtikov © poetry of the “iron race” as in
Comrade Fritsche calls our young proletarian
poetry, and would introduce those departments that we
They said above. Here at V.Ts.I.K.
great opportunities to use as needed
the strength of the intelligentsia, which has now come to the
branch of Rossni, Then “Messenger of Life” - we
we remember the old “News of Life” ®-
1907 scientific body of the then Bolyn-

zizmeg - etunet is truly cut off in not

a desirable element in the life of the proletarians. B
In connection with this, one more note: many
articles are of a newspaper nature - in a magazine
you need to give magazine articles and not so much anymore
limit the scope of the authors.

The appearance of the “Messenger of Life” is stillishny
witness that your work is beginning
become more and more profound. And this
the phenomenon is extremely gratifying, given in No.
contents of the following numbers which promise
be just as interesting.

Art. Erietsov.

SIREN. Proletarian fortnight. Vo-
Ronezh. No. 1, 1918, 72 pages. Price 2 rubles. 50 kopecks,

Namego regiment has arrived" Another worker
artistic and literary magazine.

The beauty of appearance immediately catches your eye
magazine "Sirena": - printed on thick paper
mage, typed in large, clear font, animated
colorful screensavers and brilliant execution"
nenny endings; make the magazine luxurious
two inset engravings-portraits of A. Luna-
Charsky and M. Gorky; has contents
some color cover.

But... how attentively and lovingly
Polyena is the appearance of the magazine, just as un-
the selection of its content is careless.

Occupying a large place in the magazine
N. Lyashko’s tale “By the Sea” is drawn out and watery
and turbid.

There are good passages in Bakhmetyev’s story
"Voroshilin". But the main characters of the story—
indecisive, doubting intellectual
party worker feeling uneasy
places, Voroshilin - on one side m
the other is worker Nikitiy, an ordinary militant
proletarian resolution - both are outlined in
bottom,

In poetic, easy language, in your own language,
written “The Nightingale Night” by Vyach, Shishkova
the best of the magazine's prose pieces.

There is nothing new in the stories “Krestovaya”
young lady" by A. Remizova, "February sunshine"
S. Erman and “Pavel Fedorovich” Tarasov,
Ivan's articles are interesting and interesting. Hand-
Vishchinkova and V. Stavevich.

Of the poems, they are distinguished by their novelty
holding “Uprising” by P. Oreshin and “Kras-
"naya Russia" by Narbuta V. Iskreane written
verse P. Zaitsev “Songs of the Repeaters”. Calls
bewilderment subsided. “Varricades” by Davis Uman-
skiy,

In general, the magazine leaves a good feeling

’
No. 4

G-R-Y.

83

RZ

external impression, and we sincerely wish
our Voronezh comrades were more likely to be successful
her to bring out the magazine “Siren” from the correct, shi-
the fateful road of proletarian magazines. For
this is necessary; strict selection makes art-vernacular proletarian literature, articles
literary and socialist nature,
finally, notes illuminating the cultural
educational work in local conditions.
The main task of the proletarian magazine is to
to respond to the spiritual demand of the masses - and not
be a random collection of sticks and stories
for the people."
C, 0—h.

VANGUARD. Monthly journal Orgvn
Kaluga Union of Workers' Youth "Sh-ii"
International". No. 1.

Does the journal satisfy its fundamental
What is the purpose of the working youth body? E in-
WHETHER TO JUDGE BY THE ROUNDING FIRST NUMBER
magazine, you will have to provide it - no. Magazine,
first of all, quite poor in terms of pre-
literary material put into ism,
and anything new, not at all valuable
contributes.

In fact, yes, three, are common in such

kind of magazines, articles, modest miniature
ra in prose - Gasteva, and several, quite
weak poems, of course, not a hundred
to satisfy the Janin, at least in the most i-
to a large extent, any of the readers.

Articles, as is usually the case in art8>
ty written about youth, - to-
are freely ordinary and do not contain anything
what would really be a reflection
the life of proletarian youth, their quests and
requests, and what would provide them with an answer
and instructions.

Literary and artistic material before"
also poorly placed. Of the poems only
It’s worth unwinding Yarvich’s poem,
boasting its expressive and strong
pouring out, and a short poem by Poe"
Marine "Workers' Palace".

Gastev is usually brightly imaginative and original,
unfortunately represented only a few
shim vabroskom. under the title "Old Age".

Of course, to be horny, to fashionable publications?
The problem will not pass. Ovi has nothing to do with it. Povilil
I think the magazine just hasn’t had time to unite
thread and create a certain
creative core from among working youth,

‚G

162 >
BURN.

—=— ————-—---.-.

Received to the editor for review;

Congratulations to all Russian teachers. Ed.,
V. Ts. I, K. 1919. Ts. 50 copies.

Instructions on the procedure for volost and
ruralowls det. Ed. V. Ts. I. K. 1918.
C. 40 k.

V. Kerzhentsev. How the British oppress
peasants on their estates. Ed., V. Ts. I. K.
1919. C. 80 k.

A. Toffe. (V. Vrymsky), Vieshkaya politics
Soviet Russia. Ed. V. Ts. I. K. 1918.
Ts. 1 >. 50 no.

L. Trotsky. Captured by the English. Ed. V. Ts.
I. K. 1918. C. 50 copies,

N. Osinny. Democratic Republic
and the Soviet Republic, Publishing, V. Ts. I. K.
1919. Price: 50 kopecks.

Yu. Steklov. Why are we communists? Ed.
V. Ts. I. K. 1918, C. 75 copies.

Alexander Arkhangelsky. Black clouds.
, Poetry. Ed. "Sagittarius". Chernigov. 1919. C,
10 rub. Page 102._

Revolutionary - calendar-reference book on
1919 Ed. Tulyok. Gubootd. Stamps. 1910.
C. not specified.

N. Stepnoy. (N. Afinogenov). Proletarian.
In "Steppe". Samara. 1919. Ts. 2 r.

V. Vlasov-Oksky. Sunny way. Poetry.
Number of "Torches". Tver. 1919. Ts. 2 r. 50 k.

Vyach. Polonsky. M. Gorky. Ed. V. Ts. I.K.
Moscow. 1919. C, 2 r. 50 k.

"Chronicle of the Museum-City. Published by the People's Commissariat of Education.
Petersburg. 1919. G. Ts.’s book is not listed.

Alexander Todorsky. Year - with a rifle and
plow Ed. Vesyegon. C, Isp. Com. 1918. C.
not specified.

A. Lunacharsky. Dialogue about art Izd

V. Ts. I. K. 1918. Ts. E r. 50 k,
` A. Menysha. "Free America"
V. Ts. I. K. 1918, C. 50 copies.

Ed.

"Clara Zetkin. Woman and her economic
Russian position. Ed. V. Ts, I. K. 1918, Ts, 1p,

O. Koshkarov. Funeral lament, right-
glorious for edification... Ed. V. Ts. I. K.
1918. Ts. 75 k

V. ribknezht. Memories of Marx. Ed.
V. Ts. I. K. Ts. 8 r, 25 k, 1018.

N. Rubakin. Adventures in the land of slaves
stva. Ed., V. Ts. I. K. 1918. Volume 5 r. 50 k.

Knut Hamsun. Pan. Ed. V. Ts. I, K. 1919.
C: 2 r. 40 k.

I. (. Nikitin. Diary of an Seminarian,
Tale. Ed. V. Ts. I. K. 1918. C. 80 copies.

Jack London. When the gods laugh. Ras-
tales, Ed. V. Ts. I. K, 1918, Ts. 89 copies.

V. Reymont. Guys. CPU. Winter.
V. Ts, I. K, 1919. Ts. Zr. 20 k,

I. Tone. Lectures on art. C. T. Publishing,
V. Ts. I. K. 1919. C. 80 copies.

G. Hauptmann. Sunken bell. Ed.
V. Ts, I. K. 191. Ts. 2 r. 40 k.

„Grud Tvorchestvo", No. 1. Ezhened, Smolen
of the Proletkult. 1919.

"Tsorchestvo". No. 3. 1919. Koots. Publishing house, “Our
thought*, Kharkov. Ts. 8 r. 50 k.

Siren No. 1. Ed. Gor. Spanish Com. Voronezh.
C, 2 r. 50 k. 1919.

Responses." Wife-owner. No. 1,2, Zi 4.
Syzran. Ed., Dept. Nar. Arr., 1919. Ts. 1r.50k.

"& the sun". Monthly May. 1919. No. 1. Publ.
Rezhitsk. Dept., N, Arr., C. 5 r.

"Transport and Life". No. 1. January. No. 19.
Ed. Moscow Nar. Com. Paths Message
Ts. 2 r. 50 k.

"Working World". Ed. M.C.R. K. No. 4-5,
1919. Ts. 8 r.

"Red plowman." No. 1. 1919. Publ. Nar, Com,
Earth Ts. 2 r. 50 k.

Ed.

ro aa
U

All material of the chronicle was collected and compiled by participants of the literary studio).

Around Moscow.

House of Culture.
(1st Meshchanskaya St., Ovo “Cooteutation”).

Sokolniki District Council of Deputies O-vu
“Cooperation” for its cultural and educational
activity provided by a beautiful
person,

0 fulfills an important task - to give a lot
to a large contingent of employees of all types
possible enterprises and unorganized
workers the opportunity to show their strengths
studying one or another branch of art.

Open: secondary schools
courses for adults, kindergarten and studios
dramatic and choral.

Students of general education courses in
degrees of training are divided into 2 groups; in
Each group consists of 35 people. Composition
listeners - varied: seamstress, office
civil servants and workers. h

In kindergarten, children are also divided into
2 groups with 2 leaders. For children
Breakfast is provided. In the summer they were arranged
three playgrounds: two for games and one for gardening
naya in the Botanicho Garden. Garden work
were very interested in Detoy; autumn harvest
the pilaf was divided among the children.

Students of drama and choir studios
have already shown their strength at the organized
About concerts and evenings.

Drama studio and artist
State testra "Lebedev, choral
is under the guidance of a graduate
servatory - Vorisoglebsky.

Classes in courses and studios are carried out
three days a week from 6 to 8 pm.

The course fee is 8 rubles. 50k. in dramatic
in the choir studio—20 rubles, in the choir studio—15 rubles per month,

Lectures were given on socio-political
social issues and lectures-concerts dedicated to
famous to Turgenev, Lermontov, Koltsov and Chai-
Kovsky.

There is a library of 4000 copies; and at
her reading room,

M, V.

Club Commune of Sushchevsko-Maryinsky
district.
(Aleksandrovskaya St.).

Maryina Roshcha, formerly famous hooligan-
the antics and drunkenness of the population,
since the October Revolution, the
Nila her face.

Good work should be noted
Club of the Commune. For enhanced attraction
minimum membership requirements for club membership
fees - entrance fee in the amount of 75 k. and monthly
monthly for 50 k. Recommendation required
two members or a communist cell.

ub makes every effort to give
to the viewer - the mass - the proletariat of the artist
a real spectacle within the limits of his understanding,

Performances are given three days a week. Sta"
plays were performed: “Savva”, “Death of Hope”,
“Bszrabotnye” and others, performed by studio members
1st Drama Studio Proletkult Su-
Shchevsko-Maryinsky district, under the management
Comrade Serezhiikova.

In addition to performances on the remaining three days,
cinematic films are being shown in Delhi
paintings, often in connection with a lecture.

On Fridays lectures are given on political
public topics.

.To give the proletarian to show creativity
amateur performances in the field of art,
The club has open recitation and living studios.
write down

Classes in studios take place in groups of four
once a week from 7 to 9 hours. evenings.

There is an extensive library and reading room,
but few books are read. The club is energetically active.
great work in attracting Marinoroschinsk residents,
accustomed to reading “The Battle of the Russians © Kabar-
Dints" "Dream Books", "Oracle" etc. for reading
classics. Therefore, lectures are given on
literature, for example about Maxim Gorky and others.

M. V,
BURN. 4

By province,

"PYroletnult" in Tambov,

A proletarian who came from Tambov
this, Comrade Pomorsky, told the editors
interesting information about the Tambov Prolet-
stump, we owe our fuss to the energy
gii and initial smallgroup of local
Proletarian cultural workers.

Based on their efforts, in the past
in September conferences of cultural and educational
tive organizations of the Tambov province
It was decided to organize Proletkult.

At the same conference, the Executive
com and developed in relation to post-

updates of the First All-Russian Conference..

tions of the Proletarians, cultural educator"
organizations, the program of the future Pro-
letkulta,

His work is based on the conference
at the price, firstly, a complete amateur
ity of the students of the Ethudians and, secondly, the military
dimensional assistance in identifying creativity
proletarians-artists, musicians, p0*
these and writers.

The organization has emerged and is maintained
but solely on the affinities that are collected
staged performances and concerts, arranged
established by local workers’ organizations’
No subsidies Tambov Prolet-
the cult does not use it, although from the very first steps
they established full business contact
with the People's Commissarnat for Prooveshzviy,

Like all Proletkults, Tambovoky Pro"
Lotkult consists of studios headed by
There are many Councils, composed of elected
representatives from students and teachers
lei. Studio managers are elected by the Co-
vets of the relevant studios and approved
are issued by the Executive Committee of Proletkultv.

Following the example of Governor, gradually arose
cabins, on the basis of an ideological connection with them, this
Nominal district, golden and provincial districts
Proletkults.

By December in Tambovsky Prodet.
Dramatic and Musical worked cult
but-choral studio, Two others--Hupozhost-

military (otherwise it is called toptser stu*

of Fine Arts) and Literature

tour - were still in the stage of organizing
CI.

There are 800 people in the Okoho drama school.
students. It is headed by a former
employee of the Petrograd Proletkult comrade.
Komarov, who has been invited to help
local artists comrade Volina, Caesar
and Raushok.

Subjects covered: History of theater,
voice staging, diction, recitation, collection
active reading, plastic and grthem. Classes about
They leave after 6 p.m.

In the October days, students wrote epics
successfully completed in the Mestkoe Narodny
theater and music school plays “30”
ri" Verharva and "Royal Ebarder"
Lupacharokogo.

In the near future it is expected that
drive students out of mobile students
troupes.

The music-rich studio accommodates up to 600 people. teaching"
current ones. The studio is headed by a former
local singing teacher comrade Pozdnyakov. When
studios have two general educational litters
n foreign instructor (30 people) Duty
the latter includes, among other things, special
new musical trips around the province, in Ts6*
dashing demonstration and instruction.

The general student choir has so far learned
all revolutionary acts have already been publicly performed"
hymns and most popular as revolutionary
lutionary and proletarian songs in general,
to the words of the workers' poets (by the way -
“Hymn of Proletkult” to the words of Pomeranian
music Pozdnyakov, “The Dawn Song”, etc.),

The choir has already and now often has to
to relax at concerts at the invitation of places -
nal workers' organizations.

Soon a special* will be opened at the studio
nzya school of choral singing.

In the Art Studio the organizer-ru-
artist Samorodov has been invited to lead

A literary studio is to be opened
from January 1, 1919;
No. 4

BURN,

87

In addition to the studios at Proletkult there is
special literary publishing company
business His goal is to unite all pro-
letarian literary forces of Tambov Gu-
Bernia. The department publishes the journal “The Coming
Culture.” To the publisher, in the absence of
leg pain, you have to overcome
all sorts of difficulties. The case is underway"
ty exclusively in debt, in hope, so sk8>
say, “future blessings.” Only persistence
and confidence in the benefits of the matter is supported
the energy of the leaders and initiators of the places -
of the Proletkult, literally forced
strive to support, establish and
strengthen the efforts they have undertaken to
such conditions, Despite any trul-
Novia is a good initiative gradually strengthening
no, bothexpects to become in the near future

finally firmly on my feet.
N, Turchanynyuv,
Village Sleptsovo, Smolensk province, Sychev-
district

Residents of the village Sleptsova, absolutely not ana-
know what theater and art in general are, and
the main thing is not only one, but many and
others like her.

It seems very strange; four miles away
from it there is a large village with a people's house,
within whose walls. exemplary dramatic
corpse"; almost every week puts ho-
a well memorized play, sometimes even a topic
real events. Visitors to the performance
mainly “selyano” and retsko can be seen
hide against the wall of someone standing in the corner
the peasant is the bottom of our trees.

Such a visit is not explained because
that the villagers don't want to know that
such a theater, ® somehow they are afraid to accustom themselves
go and be where the daughter of the priest happens to be
Inka or Uchvtelniyya. Despite various
multiple invitations by group, through
the same teachers and local intelligentsia,
the results were very insignificant.
During the Christmas holidays, on the initiative of
G. Nivonenkova, in the village. Sleptsov was arranged
Literary and Artistic Evening, consisting of
shiy in what was played out in the faces of non-
how many fables, poems recited and
read stories with explanations. To the people
there were a lot of people gathered, only the villagers,
because it was not widely announced; listened about

Editor: Editorial Board,

#857

with great effort, trying not to level
just one word,

At the end of the evening, Nikoneniov turned to
those gathered with a call to shackle the amateur"
sk group, for which I received a sympathetic
response from the youth present. M.D.

S. Podmoilovo, Tulsn. g.
The peasant youth organized the Cult.-
Enlightenment circle. There are no hands. Reading
books. They want to start publishing their
magazine with its mediums, Stopped the matter
moose yaa-va printing house. b-c.

S. Baskanovo, Snolenskaya province.

Cult.-Enlightenment activity is spreading, Kot
stone 2-storey People's House, bible*
swelling. Performances are staged. With great success
home passed Gorky’s “At the Lower Depths”, dfor what purpose?
read the art note Mosk. Artist theater, in the distance
It was decided to cancel such invitations
thread, because artist aa production “To the Bottom”
took 2,000 rubles, which is not enough for a young circle
strength. The library needs to be replenished. 4.

°C. Vmsokinichi, Kaluga province.

In view of mobilization, loss of active forces,
Published by Zles magazine “Creativity Field”
Tariat" ceased. Newspaper "Voice of Prazna"
Somehow it's still holding up. With the help of prizha-
after the captivity of our comrades, 2 people were opened
at home. They staged “Spoiled” by S. Semenov,
passed with success. Feels big
knowledge in fiction, especially
but in collections of poems for recitation -

CIN. F.K.
S. Lopatino, Tulsnoy province.
Organized by Cult.-Prosv. circle by

initiated by local kulaks. In a circle there is a word
"reasonable entertainment": in the evenings
peasant youth gather to play
lotto, lottery speculation often occurs
tion. In cinema - Prince and Max Linder.
5th,

S. Troyatskoye, Kaluzhenoy lips.
Culturally"Enlightens. activity is weak,
There is a People's House, where on Wednesday
ladies have cinematic sessions,
Sundays - lectures on the fight against infectious diseases
diseases. The play “On Kensper” was withdrawn

tive apartment.” ' V.
Publisher: Mesnovenii Proletnult,

^
to

CONTENTS.

Page Oztr.
‚ (quiet, Theater Department. ; ;
North. V. Aleksandroveky .. we, No. of the actor’s work on the 060th....,. 48
.„ V. Aleksandrovsky...,.... 1
*, V. Alexandrovsky. „...... 7 Club department.
*+ V, Alexandroveky. .,..... 8 About the content of the club work of the individual entrepreneur. Kny-

Nationalization. Osmen Rodov..... 9
To the village. Semyon Fomin. .:g..... 9
Lantern. Nikolay Poletasv.. ‚... 10
*„* Nikolay Poletaev... .... Ш
From the carriage window. S. Obradovic., .., 13

r V a Ra
About working in a teenagers club. (7. Arr.

Dovich. ...... and oh 58
At the workers' club. Otaroo....... 61
Sample lane V. Mityushina.. .... 63
Well New Life of B. Mityushin..... 64
Oraonok. Story by N. Llshko...... 12 Fine art department.

Three faces. Story by I. Poletaev. ., 18 G. $
“There! Let's fight!" Story by F. Kiselev. 19en enko yyy a 61

Drawings by students Illustration. Department, 74—76

Articles.
Second Conference of the Moscow Pro-Musical Department.
letkulta.,......... 21 Vershavyaika. Harmonization K. ‹.. o]
Literary criticism department. Vibliography.
Review by S. O-cha...... wow. ©

Verhari and Gastev. V. Pletneva... . 24
`/War in the works of Maupassant. VB.
Veshneva. + . ® + * ® * * . * ® * 32

V i. —
About prejudices in Yuezia N. Poletaeva. 44 5
”

Auto. Yeah... oh... 80
S. Krivtsova. juice 81

Do the reader “Gender” need them?: t a 9 a =.
new collective #0 kaassiks"? | ” m E and U NA
N. Stre. ri TERN not r B
Literary and Publishing Department of the Moscow Proletkult.
SUBSCRIPTION CONTINUES

bathroom journal > PROPETCULPTA.

Published with the participation of all Moscow employees. Ave., both teachers and students.
The price of a separate room is 7 rubles.

EDITORIAL ADDRESS and OFFICE: Moscow, Vozdvizhenka, 16, reception daily from
1 hour to 3 p.m.

E. V. LIGHT: “GORNA LIBRARY*:
“Firewing Plant” (2nd edition), collection
nickname of Aldexandrovsko's poems. Gerasi- No. 1. “Uprising”, V. Aleksandrovsky.
mov, Eroshina, Nikolaeva. Ts. 4 rub. 50k. No.02. “About the little things of priests and kulaks—
“Monna Lisa”, poem by M. Gerasimov. skikh“, play for the puppet theater
Ts. 1 r» 25 k. and F. Kiseleva.
Yes, poems by M. Gerasimov. No. 3. “Captured”, story by V. Veshnev
“Flowers under Fire”, stories by M. Gera - No. 4. “Poems”, N. Poletaeva.
Simova. C. Tr. No. 5 “On a quiet stretch”, story by V. Llet-
“Workers' Village”, poems by V. Aleksannev.
Drovsky. Ts. 3 r.
“North”, poems by V. Aleksandrovsky. Ts. Er. The price of each issue is 1 rub. 50 k.

"Proletarian Culture".
“BODY OF THE ALL-RUSSIAN PROLETKULT COUNCIL”.
IS PUBLISHED ONCE A MONTH,

The price of each room is 1 rub. 590 k.

Please send money to pay for the magazine to:

Moscow. Smolensky Blvd., 26, to the editorial office of the journal. "Proletarian Culture"

Book publishing house of the All-Russian Proletkult Council.

A. Bodanov. Art and the working class. . 1 rub. - k.
A. Bogdanov. Socialism of science ...... 1, 25,

A. Lunacharsky. Proletarian writers. (being prepared
to the stovety).

Protocols Perv. In Serossiysk. Propetkult conferences edited by
P, I. Pebedev-Popyansky.

Price 7 rubles.