OLETARY OF ALL COUNTRIES, UNITE!

SEROSSIAN PROLETKULT

4N 1923
| 5 in | Workers of all countries, unite!

} PZ5

HORN

BOOK 8

literary and artistic
mi social scientific journal

at the ESud PB

relative
PUBLIC IBLISTECA

in Jeningoala

EDITION
ALL-RUSSIAN and MOSCOW PROLETNULT
. MOSKEA—1923
and the ABCs

To the program.

Theses on science.

Adopted at the meeting of the President
podium of the Central Committee of the All-Russian Prolet-
cult May 25, 1923 Moscow.

1. Based on the position of Karl Marx, that in various “ways of
production" correspond to historically different "ways of representing
niya“, scientific socialism denies in class society the non-class
the nature of science, both in general and in any of its individual areas.

2. The class character of bourgeois science is determined by anarchism
ical structure of the capitalist system and is expressed not only and not
so much in its direct service to the interests of the dominant
classes and depending on these interests, how many are in the method, point
point of view (method of presentation) and target setting of individual sciences, with
on the one hand, and fragmentation, narrow workshop specialization, on the other.
Its task in bourgeois society is to preserve and strengthen this system.

3. The task of scientific socialism in science is the goal setting of science
towards socialism, the subordination of all its areas to the practice of socialist
construction, elimination of narrow shop specialization, application
The dialectical-materialist Marxist method in all areas
aspects of science, generalization on this basis of scientific methods, critical
the development in this way of the bourgeois scientific heritage.

4. By participating in solving positive creative problems, you
flowing from the above, Proletkult sets as its task
combat active participation in the unfolding struggle on the scientific
front against the resurgent trends of the past - metaphysics
In its various manifestations: religiosity, mysticism and idealism.

Theses on art.

Adopted at the meeting of the President
podium of the Central Committee of the All-Russian Prolet-
cult May 25, 1923.—Mosquaw

1. In a class society, art is one of
powerful instruments of the classist rule of the bourgeoisie. For the proletariat it

U

is an instrument of his class struggle and obeys his instructions

chams and methods of the general system of building proletarian culture.
2. The art of bourgeois-capitalist society is characterized by
is characterized by the following characteristics:

a. Artistic creativity in the whole general trend of fe-
is quietized as “free inspiration”, uncontrolled and
not scientific, and is considered self-sufficient (art
for art), being a narrow-caste monopoly.
b. At the same time, artistic creativity in the bourgeois
society is decorative, additional, in contrast
homage to the wealth-creating productive
labor. It passively reflects nature, frozen or decayed
social forms without creative aspirations for construction
to new forms of social life.

V. Technique of art as an individualistic technique
craftsmanship (handicrafts, craftsmanship), always not only

‚ lagged behind, but was also opposed to the machine technology of the general

natural production.

d. Products of art either exist outside of everyday life, or they lead
from everyday life into illusory contemplation (stylization, chamber and stan-
art), or are externally added to everyday life (applied
quality, decoration).

d. Art in general is production for the market,
commodity production of artistic values.

3. Bourgeois art operates in the above forms
relaxes the psyche, teaches contemplative passivity,
instills in the masses skills, habits, tastes, ideology - beneficial
ruling classes.

4. The task of the proletariat in the field of art is to
to consciously make it directly and actively effective
a powerful instrument of socialist construction.

To do this you need:

a. To subordinate artistic creativity to scientifically conscious
techniques and methods. Replace the fetishized principle of “art”
art for art"principle of socio-technical expediency

` imagery, using all the techniques and methods of artistic
creativity to the extent of their social significance. Walk along the line to-
achieving maximum proletarian class influence,
simultaneously rejecting the bourgeois-fetishistic division
arts into “high” and “low”.

6. Raise artistic technique from handicrafts,
handicrafts to the highest forms of technology.

V. Art should be an integral part of everyday life, as
in active visual forms (posters, advertising, propaganda and prop.,
theater, cinema), and in material-organizing forms (psychophysical
cultural culture, organization of mass action, holidays,
processions in demonstrations, material conditions of everyday life, construction
creation of things).

d. Artistic production ultimately in social
listic society should become the production of values for
consciously regulated satisfaction of public needs
of natural artistic production.

THOR'S EXPERIMENTS
LAST SEEING AWAY FOR V.V. VOROVSKY.
(Experience of things).

Comrade killed. (2)
There is no comrade. (?)
The rows are tighter. Firmer step. (?)
Last flight to the Kremlin wall, (?)
Fight of hearts (2)
Grief is a wilderness. (2)
Shot for shot.
Blow for blow. (1)
We will stand. (1!)
Let's line up (1!)
Mol Labor. (+)
The world is visible from the Kremlin towers. (?)
We are given to want (1!)
And dare. (2)
Oath! (1!)
Oath! (1)
It will be scary (?)
Our answer to this (1!)
Death! (?)
Shot for shot.
Blow for blow. (1!)
We will stand. (1!)
Let's line up (!)
Mol Labor.

The march, written by S., M. Tretyakov, was read by the choir of the 1st Workers' Theater of Moscow
Skovsky Proletkult on the move during the funeral of Comrade Vorovsky in Moscow,

The layout of the lines corresponds to his choral reading. The numbers in brackets mean
number of steps per pause after a line,
S. Obradovic.

HAMMER.

Sun,

Throw it up

Signal flare!
Hammerman—

Get into formation!

We walk around the world like a shaggy storm.
Whirlwinds behind us -

Blind horde.

There were springs -

Like these stones.

There were springs -

Widow's eyes:

The winds howled through the clogged shutters,
Gnawing rthose hulls are rusty.

Nikli

Yurts, shacks, huts.
In each:

Mother,

Mud,

Sadness.

The fields are crowded

From swollen corpses,
The streams are boring

By the bones

Murmur.

Isn't it from blue eyes?
Are the grass sprouting?

Isn't it blond curls?
Is the feather grass curly?..
No. 8

FOREIGN EXPERIMENTS.

Was:

In typhoid delirium

Outposts

They walked in a terrible march on the pavements.

Machine-gun wheezing -

Enemy trenches

Laryngeal obscenities

The stations are out of the way, -

Hungry springs froze on guard,
The step was in tatters on the roads.

To shreds - nights,
Days - in a crowd:
Burnt out... trampled... buried...

...Get stronger,
Hammerman,
Into the slush with another spring at the same time!

It's not for nothing!..

We were taught

Forge into steel

Hearts and words

Let's May and March

Our efforts -

The blue rings like winged steel,

Nights, soot and pain -

To pieces!

Hammerman -

Mint step!

Sun -

Flare into the square!
Sun today

In our hands!

Alexander Bagaev.

GREEN HOUSE,

Green house.

There is a bench near the house.

Above the bench - to save money -
A flashlight sparkling with tin.
Good on tin

Indicated - and the number

And belonging to the police.

In a word,
As they say -
The house is an honor.

The gate is tight. Spring.
Are you on

Nope,

She

on you

Pret.

They say, don’t rush at the gate.

In the yard, on a wire
Housekeeper -
Cerberus Barbos

Tends to bite

Caviar.

There is a window in the house
Dimly lit.
No. 8

FOREIGN EXPERIMENTS. and

6

Icons - icons - icons.
Plenty.

Horror.

Molodchaga George the Victorious
Swung his spear

On a crocodile

Looking brutal.
Courageous

Alexander Nevsky,
Warlike prince

With a neighbor - His Eminence Neil -
Maintains friendly
Apolitical connection.

Here is also located:

There are five portraits of the Virgin Mary,
Wise Elder Seraphim

And the young man - Seryozha of Radonezh.

What is the little Aeneid?
Virgilieva!

Her characters

With Odysseus himself

Melt

Even - even to Jupiter -

Shall we compare?

With such a sailor
Cold-blooded, fearless -
With old man Nikolai?!

And already at the top

In the height of the clouds,

To the waist - in a robe,

Any pious old lady
Guarantee submitter
Necessary,
12

r: © r. No. 8

Strong -

Spreads loving eyes
Space worker

Citizen of Hosts.

Evening lamp

Throws to the floor

Raspberry highlight.

And outside the window

Darkening agony

The day is passing

Broken

The last fifteen minutes.

And they drink, and they pour, and they drink
Behind the saucer is a saucer -
They perform sacred acts.

The wife is a handsome woman,
Choking, rattling
About the rising price of herrings.

On the sly

Three years old son

Climbed my lips

In a faience milk jug,
It gurgles and chatters with bubbles.

Father laughs:

- What a weirdo!

And - right! - fatherly hand
Slaps a slap on the head,
No. 8

CHAMBER HUMANITIES. 13

And the steam has grown colder
Thinner and thinner and thinner...

And - finally -
Finished
Solid samovar.

The heavy head of the family
Sweeps away sugar crumbs
Into a fleshy palm.

There is a full moon in the window
Impassive,
Yes, star lights.

And tough
Shadows appear
On the cobblestone road.

They knock... the barboska growls.

Spouse with bye-bye
Rocks the baby to sleep.
The owner carefully removes
A vest for the stuffiness.

Alexander Bagaev.

TWILIGHT.

Closer to the market.

Muddy Square,

Inflated by black people,
Like a leg - rheumatism.

Cold. Frost.

Smells like a dog
Delicate nose

The smell of excitement
Bazarny.

- Sloth, sneer... -

Dirt slurps.

Ay, into a puddle! Oops, miss!
The wet felt boots are jumping.

To Mosselprom
You won't get very far.
Black bread kovriga
Installed a rather big one
Screaming queue.

Meat-fish-greens-vegetables
They get out onto the square

Salom

Fat

Red carcasses -
Reaching out in a teasing row.

And they stand dejectedly
Helplessly-
No. 8

Xia

FOREIGN EXPERIMENTS.

Omitted
Horses
At the tavern.

Cloudy - cloudy.
Gas flares up.
The cab drivers are tired
They whip up the little horses,
And rickshaws from the stations
Weaving sluggishly

Almost without any money.

In blind houses
Scattering electric sparkles
Through the eyes of a fox

Against a gloomy gray background.

And at the posts
At the crossroads -
Policemen.

The snow is blowing.

Softly

And wet.

There's an orange burn around the corner
Climbing

On the white pavement
Diamond.

Cinematography
First class.
16

$. © 4 No. 8

Lantern shameless
Licks

Persons

rustling

By trotuaram.

And a couple

Can't resolve

From the pressing twin:
Should I feel the drama with “horror”,
Or - “without any fuss”—

To the Polytechnic?

Are they worth
In front of the “Capital Poison”,
They're about to come in.

And here

Some guy is nearby
Seriously and ironically:

- It’s in vain... your tails will be crushed...

And a couple automatically
Headed to the Polytechnic.

V. Alexandrovsky.

It's good to go slowly
Along the railway embankment

And under an even ringing step

Remember the Volga and the Caspian Sea.

Reach a deserted station
Rest on the floor by the door;
The night will come with heavy armor
Until dawn it will press on your chest.

And then to the bells and roars
The train jingles with buffers,
Winks at me with his lantern:

- Life, comrade, can happen in all sorts of ways...

I'll smile and walk along the path
Along the railway embankment.
The wind will sing in my ears
Your songs about the Volga and the Caspian...
Demyan Nostenno.

EVERYDAY.

Autumn darkness.
City prison.
Red yard.
There is a patrol in the yard.
Third building,
Seventh corridor.
Dark business
In the white light—
Grilles, doors, locks.
And on the doors
Written in chalk:
“Bol-she-vi-ki.”
Three cubic fathoms of air.
Twenty-three people—
Twenty-three shadows.
Neither the sky
No bread.
Octomushka for a day—
Jokes?
“Sit here and relax!”
It will be six months on the twentieth...
Oh, freedom, freedom!
Good for the one in the kitchen.

Siberia, 1919.
S. Moiseeva.

CHILDREN'S,

If only for flowers,
It's not frosty...

STEPMOTHER.

Olga's mother died. My father remarried very soon.
Small guys - you can’t live without a woman. Mother was short and fat. Stepmother
tall, thin. Mother used to scratch Olga, inviting her with a soft palm.
has flaxen-white hair and says quietly: “Let’s buy Ole
a ribbon, we’ll braid a braid, Olya will go out for a walk and start singing
sing: “Ay Lyuli, ay Lyuli.” And Olya stands quietly, doesn’t shake her head.

The stepmother scratches her hair with a comb, the comb pulls, Olga pulls
head, the stepmother shouts: “Stop, otherwise I’ll stop scratching, you’ll
curly“,

Everything has become, everything is different. There was a lot, a lot of bread. Still more flour
paradise lies in the barn, and the mother bakes from fresh flatbread: tastes it,
what's the new musomehow.

There is a cow, and there is enough milk. And the father is cheerful.

Now everything is different. Stepmother at home. On the streets the sun is burning.
The earth is drying up. There is no rain, cracks have appeared. A cow got there...
I had to kill him by nightfall. `Olga won't have any milk.

The rye in the field is not earing, it is burnt. They finish eating the bread, but new
They're reaping. The father is angry and swears. Olga is sitting under a bush,
My little brother took a nap. Looks along the scorched field,
raises his eyes upward, where the sun burns tirelessly; s" ku-
lachki and whispers menacingly: “Ooh, stepmother!”..

IN SUMMER.

Nadya wants to wear lei. The guys went off to pick berries and mushrooms.
There, the legs are still flashing, and the ribbon in Marusya’s braid is turning red.
And Nadya would run, but you won’t get far with Vanya. Seats him down

o*
2

#0
90 HORN No. 8

on the ground near the house and go after the children. And Vanya sits, chews, and says:
sings along quietly: “So-so.” Vanya is three years old. His head is big
the stomach is inflated, does not walk. Sits more, but in a thin voice
asks: “write.” His mother will give him a cake and pat him on the head, poor thing.
Nadya puts in a piece of bread and runs into the street: “Sit, I’ll just be in a minute.”
point with the children." Father will give it to you. Vanya often has a stomach ache,
then he moans pitifully, cries, and gets dirty.

And when his stomach doesn’t hurt, he’s always chewing something thin, like
The mosquito, with its little voice, says: “G-a-a.” He sits, sits, and with his head
on the floor and knocks, who knows how he ends up at the door and pinches his hand,
gets under a chair and crushes his leg. Then Nadya gets: “Don’t quit.”
Vanya."

And on the street the kids are launching boats and splashing in the puddles.
Nadya and Vanya are right there. Looks at the children. Gives Vanyusha a piece of sugar,
sits next to me: “Eat, Vanya, sweet sugar (she licks her lips), I
just a minute here.”

Playing around, chasing Marusya and Semka, nothing but splashes all over
the sides are flying. Vanya chews sugar, hums, quietly moves forward
it's blowing up. There he is in the puddle, just as the bubbles burst.

EGORNA.

Capital holiday in Ilyinsky. There's a fair here. From all around
From all the villages, people gather here. They sell, they buy. Women's motley
scarves and sundresses, men's shirts flash. But moremost of all
guys here. We can see their heads, white and black, in all shades,
barefoot and shod, like a flock of birds, chirping, rushing to different hundred-
rons for all sorts of new market items. .

But Yegorka was not allowed into the market. Everyone goes, but he stays at home. Vaughn
Sanka the lame is already coming, the last one.

He needs it too, he can’t sit at home, so he’d let him in
stone.
The sun is high. The village is quiet. Egorka is sitting on the rubble.

There Marfusha chooses a scarf for herself, yellow with large beautiful
flowers.
No. 8 FORGE EXPERIMENTS. ‹ 21

It’s as if someone is pinching Egorka’s heart. Boring, boring. And on
at the fair, the harmonica is playing, the carousel is spinning, people, people...

What to do for fun? Egorka begins to throw fireballs into the pile
chickens hanging around on the street nearby. The chickens take off and cluck. Gets
with a stone at the dog, it runs away squealing, limping alone
leg. “Serves you right, don’t wander around when it’s a fair.”

Egorka goes into the forest. Quiet in the forest. Somewhere a bird was whistling lonely
tit. Egorka lies down on the grass. He is picking at an anthill with a stick.
Ants rush to save their property. “Look, look, look!”
We were eating at no other place than at the fair.”

My heart ached.

The day drags on slowly and for a long time. The fair is in full swing. In taverns
they don’t have time to serve tea.

Egorka, with his hands in his pockets, walks around the village. Near the tavern
stops. - “We came here the other day from Moscow for flour.”
(now many are coming) - they said: “The Bolsheviks closed Sukharevka.
Neither buy now, nor sell.” The sun is setting. They're starting
come, return after the fair. Some have a renewal, some have a direct
Nick, everyone has stories and tales. The boys say; how noble
musicians played at the tavern, as many as four and one such violin
enormous; Yes, how they spun on wooden horses, and how
The Caucasian showed tricks, and how... And Yegorka would have heard. Malice
suffocates, but holds in place. Suddenly he jumps up: “Now, sing-
Those sons of bitches, when I grow up, I’ll become a Bolshevik, I’ll close all the fairs.”

VOLODYA.

Night. Herd of horses. The moon is in decline. It's getting light. Descending to
Volodya River, washing away, ondrank fresh water and when he returned
home, then suddenly I saw that the earth had become somehow different. Sun
just, just rising, illuminating the tops of the trees. Trees
stood silently, solemnly and as if quietly listening to
that is, what the sun-chairman told. It's like a big co-
branre, which Volodya once saw in Yadrino, where his father took him.
There are people like trees in the forest, but it’s quiet like an empty hut. Wonderful.
What he says - n6 understand, but it’s good to be warm. When I finished, everyone clapped.
< made noise like trees in a storm. ‘

and
22 g: ©. R.V No. 8

The sun is starting to warm up. Volodya takes the horses away and does not
knows where he was—at a meeting or in the forest.

CHAIRMAN.

Prokofy is a distinguished worker. No one can outrun him
throughout the village on a piebald mare, it would not be possible to drive the herd from the field with such
geek that the dust won’t settle down along the way..

Even if you can barely see him from the ground, he has both a scythe and a sickle, what a mu-
bearded man. And he is a master at working with a pen. Letter to soldier Marfusha
I wrote to my husband, I didn’t have time to punish: how there were bows from my wife and
from his son, from his daughter-in-law and from his brother, things were still going on, and only then Prokofy
everything reminds me: "I wrote, but what else? Maybe the cow calved,
ali“...

Will they go swimming? - Prokofy is the first to cross to the other side -
swims, scares away the geese, puts the pig to flight and shouts: “Boys!”
he drove Kolchak away!“ Prokop took out the red evevda, iritsitsil to
cap, flaunts.

We came from the city to collect the tax in kind. He's right there. Spinning,
intervenes in the conversation: “The Ignatievs’ son is a Red Army soldier, they don’t give a damn.”
it is necessary, comrades. Khundyarov is our fist.” The comrades are smiling

rishi: “Otherwise he will be the chairman of the Executive Committee.”
Prokofy is having fun, he runs, plays, and hears everything “chairman”

“will be” and the heart jumps, and the lips themselves part into a smile.
Hey, you're the chairman!

UKRAINE.

Antipych's brother-in-law arrived. He was missing for four years. When-
was carrying rye, a bag of apples. He tells everything, he tells it. Old people
they gasp, the women gasp, and the kids... hold their breath, just their little eyes
They shine and their jaws move. “Rye is taller than human height;how
fell into a field and drowned himself; you can't see the horse. And it's thick
mother rye, and I will thresh it in it,” one word: Ukraine. Geese,
piglets! And everyone has a garden there - and in it there are countless apple trees, and cherry trees,
There will be tea as big as a fist. Know, live. There is no need to die. And white bread
Always eat the dumplings, don’t mind.”
h

No. 8 FORGE EXPERIMENTS. 23

They are listening. They shake their heads. They look around. The crusts are more
selected. The fly has nothing to profit from. Boris listened to stories.
There is no reason to tighten the belt tighter, They don’t eat white too far
(sparks from eyes) bread. Pulls there. Can't sleep. There's nothing to do here.

We agreed. Three comrades go to Ukraine together. Field,
steppe Station. They're going. The carriage is dirty, cramped, there is no room to get up or sit down.
Familiar pictures flash in front of the carriage: burnt fields, skinny
meadows The eye sees something else behind this, there at the horizon. They're going for a long time, honey
lazy. We stopped. Boris has a headache from shaking;
mi circles. The comrades are also staggering. They begged for bread. Have a snack
strength. The train has arrived. Everyone has grown in there. bags are thrown forward
They jump up and grab at anything. Boris is mixing up. From a friend -
I didn’t jump up, I didn’t dare alone. With a roar, a clang, a noise, it took off
train. Boris remains, but he will get there, hunger does not torment him, the sun is kind -
It’s warm, it’s easy to walk, and the road, after all, there it is, you know, walk on
the rails, and there... even breathing becomes painful.

He walks and looks around. He's tired. Off the rails
lay down on the hillock and saw: he was sitting in the hut, young, red-cheeked
The woman pushes a bowl of dumplings towards him. En eats, and there are more and more dumplings,
and they make you feel warm. He doesn’t even want to anymore, but the woman complies with everything.
howls: “Eat some more,” and quietly pushes him. She doesn’t eat, but she
pushes faster and faster.

.“ - Get up, aren’t you dead? - Boris opens his eyes. His
a stranger pushes him aside and says something. At the woman's puchfe - Boris
bows his tired head and dumplings, white bread, geese float towards him,
large gardens, apple trees, and in the distance - there, there is a white church, not
clear, shrouded in fog!

A. Dorogoichenko. ’

FROM THE LIFE OF A POET.1.

With coal and in the flood
I scribbled the first verse.
Quiet handwriting, timid handwriting—
Like a straw, a brittle verse,
My crazy childhood—
Sweet village silence.
I scribbled rhymes, humming—
Humming, he scribbled rhymes.
Pack by pack:

Walls, ceilings, jambs

I stained my child's heart.
Of course, they took it for nothing—
It hit me; as it should.

I'm crying on the stove.

And everyone is having lunch.

And I hear my mother complain:

Mom.

Father, the boy has gone crazy—

Playing around... |

I washed it with a washcloth...

I scraped it with a mower...

Whitewashed with clay...

And Lenkka—messed up!—

He ruined my entire hut...
Oh, I gave birth to a phony grief!..
5
I

BURN EXPERIMENTS, _

Mom is crying, sobbing bitterly,
And my angry uncle
(In Russian this is “my father”):

Tyatiai.
Look!
What other poems?
I'll release the guts.
I'll break my arms and legs
I'm naughty.
Waking up on the stove to warm up:
Put on my shoe covers—
Take the manure out of the yard!

He would have died - my frail verse -
In the unclimbed mud:
Everyone would be carrying big shoe covers,
I took out all the manure from the yard.
I walked barefoot, I walked wearing shoes
Along Bolshekamensky village...
Yes, yes, the Revolution has come
Ir—to an evilly surprised nature—
She took me with her.

*. . 8.2% . *. . . = . . . _ .
And now even books are coming out.
And my beard is growing.

I.

A poet is a poet!

So, we need to go to a cafe:

With wolves like wolves,

Nothing!

Have you been to the cafe, Revolution?

Let's go. at
VO and

2$

t og about Kd about aaa Aries VK.

You.

OI Iechavia

I’m going in together with the Revolution
(We go everywhere together)—
I walk in and can’t believe my eyes:
The face of the Revolution darkened.

I seem like a primeval beast

And I seem like a Hun to myself:
And-them, what important poets!

`Wow, the cafe poets are smart!

They know such images!

And they know such words!

It’s almost scary from the words -
How does one head fit...

And important poets read,

And smart poets read

So familiar, so decent—
Cosmetically so sleek,
The face of the Revolution is becoming darker.

I seem to myself to be a wild animal,

And I seem like a Hun to myself:
All the whirlwinds are on their hind legs, sabotaging.
That's it!

Really?

These??

Real???

The most????

And I, a fool,

I dreamed with a friendoh poet
- Beaten by my mother for poems.

. PN AT SVE am r ZO sconce

And the poems are about “lovely Venus”,
About some “beloved Lucia”.
And the reports are 0 “word falling”,

Where is everything “march”, yes “smear”, yes

“smear”, yes “smear”...

I whisper in the ear of the Revolution:
— Moscow needs to be cleaned.
THORNE'S EXPERIMENTS. 27

4

Allow me...
- It’s still early,
Take your time.
I immediately became bored

And I felt annoyed.

No!

If this is really poetry,
To your health—

I'd rather not be a poet.
Back without touching:
To the roar of a cow,
To the factory roar.
Into the street noise

He stepped.

Sh.

Here they go, shift after shift...

'Hard-working calloused people:

Writes an unprecedented poem
An unprecedented monogamous poet.

And his words are unfamiliar,
And his language is unfamiliar:
Tongue is not a language:

Council of People's Commissars...

Vasenha...

Vtsik...

One hundred...

Calm down

Verse!

Stop!

What words to express?
There is nothing to do with verbal hubbub.
To the machines!
g.9 R.N.

The muscles there will become tight,
Hard muzzles will rub—
Then we have different rhythms
Let's untie the dead knots

Labor makes you hot
Dull steel
Vsklen pours
In the muscles al.

How good
Night and day
Edit-work
Ferry-fire!

Then at work,
Blood in the fight -
Let's turn the topic off -
All of us: in a crowd.

Labor remains
All of me—
The rest of life
Everything from him.

Proletariat! Proletariat!
How much creativity
How many new topics?

“Barely look around:
In every move, in every action...

Without a poet there are darkness of poems.
Should I rake it, should I rake it in a handful?
A mountain of new topics? .

whoa
Your hammer sounds like an exact rhyme,

W o o Sami

THORNE'S EXPERIMENTS. 29

#5.

Sirens roar - what an assonance.
And the rhythm of labor is broad-based:
From the whirlwinds of life there is rhythm.

Proletariat!

Your clear hammer blow,

And this stale ore

(She is only callous at first glance)—
They tell me about the power of labor

And they tell me about war.

With your head back to work,

I will throw myself into the fight.

It’s so light, it’s good
Plunge into the crowd!

Burn all the rubbish of obsolete meters
In the forge of free verse.

And so

Under the howl of the machine wind
Sing with horns, my verse is free,
Cry like a siren at dawn.

And—not

Calm down.

No regrets, no admirer,
Filled with music,
EidI'm walking towards the sun,
I smell a new bright day.

GU:

There is a moment—

When it aches like a hernia,

My verse, losing its way...
And I see it painfully clearly

My old village face:
30

m

Horse-tailed porters
From under the floor

Children's tattered bast shoes

From bast.

Proletariat!

I understand (even if it’s hard for me!) -
I understand: with poetry

And my achievements

I—compared to you—
Still the same stupid little boy:
I still write timidly

Yes, on the flood of coal...

aa RV ab

At least give it up!
u.

It's foggy— :
My sunshine lit up mistyly.
But-.

What's strange about that?

Life was painful without poetry,
.And how lousy life is.

After all, it’s like childhood once upon a time...
(You may be dreaming

Your childhood?).

And we...

And I...

Lousy..

Strangers...

Mordvison...

And it’s an appanage village: Tsarskoe...

The poet was a primitive beast.
Only now - bearded to the ears
'I'm becoming a real child.
FOREIGN EXPERIMENTS. 3

/6

Should I sing about “lovely Venus”,
Or sing about “beloved Lucia”?
I love to sing about you, Proletarskaya—
My mother—Revolution!

And more about you, my elder brother,—
Proletariat!

Perhaps you will reject me:
I have nothing to be very proud of...

I'm not in cloudless delight

I am who I am.

I'm going to meet the future -

The past is following me.

After all, the past is a dime a dozen.
My path is too rocky.
But here—

I am blessed by you,

And that nickname for honor:

It's in the forehead, it's in the chest:
Communist poet.

Proletariat! Proletariat!

All days are like boring eves.

All life is like mold on top of a pond.
And I am painfully overjoyed:

I sound like the music of the Commune,

I sound like the music of Labor.

And I’m proud that the verse is free
Arose in your poetry.

I am yours, Poet of the People,

In poetry and life, a student.

And here is my verse.

Take him.

Which pipe will I blow?

About how I hate my verse

And how madly I love the poem!
Molodtsov - Evening.

_DARNING DAY.

The city, like a city, is not Solshoy, not small: the street is spread out
Tsami really and at random, grabbed the earth - you can’t move it. In the center
boasts of five-story buildings, domes and disdainhe glances at
sticky wooden three-window windows are at the edges. And most importantly, -
she has her own: vegetable gardens, behind the vegetable gardens there are factories and factories, behind them there is a field,
Behind the field there is a forest, and to the forest there is a public road. Your own potatoes, cabbage,
beetroot, rutabaga and the breeze: will fly to the post office to the telegraph office
guitar, pulls the strings, and - serezade: about the field, about the steppe, about the tractor.

Without interference, freely. A tractor and a serenade are not stunting. Prigo-
Roll knows this. He also knows that stunting is trampled in the furrows,
between the beds. b.

- Fine.

- What?

- Well, they started digging the beds.

- Koneshao, Masha. You can rest on them after the winter. And to the NPO-
in the cage, you'll see, and Fedya will return from the frog.

Five-story people don’t understand this - they love to waste away. And they don't like
go listen to a serenade about a tractor and a field.

- This is not for us.

- What, Ninochka?

- Yes, here it is: conscription for field work.

- Oh, Ninochka: you keep thinking about stupid things.

And they roll their eyes towards the ceiling. Put your little finger in the corner of your mouth and
so tenderly, sadly: “Where, where have you gone, golden ones?”
days“... They sit down at the table, rest their cheeks on their palms and think:

- I wish I had some steamed rutabaga, Lord!

And what was left in the apartment was the last dozen forks and a piano.

- More forks back and forth: in your pocket, and ten pounds of millet

on them. But you can’t hide a piano under your hem. Come on, take it out
No. 8 THORNE'S EXPERIMENTS. 33

bazaar: another woman gets on the keyboard and look - a bench, and
everything is here. What the hell: some kind of cultural department for the club! Here
This is where you'll start drinking.
And they loved to sing: after “where, where” - “that the day is coming,” etc. d.
To the third floor—to the room where Ninotchka was—flying from the bell tower
my favorite is also a serenade:
and Money is lazy, money is lion,

Laziness and money, money is laziness—
To us. To you.

- Mommy, to mass.

- Well, well: Dad will come and we’ll go to the Assumption.

-Where did daddy go?

- To the village, Ninochka, for milk. Neither light nor dawn, poor
woke up.

- Oh, God!

And opposite, across the street, from the second floor window, with a crash
a threatening thing burst and flew out into the street:

- Get up, branded with a curse!

This club is an eyesore for Nforeigners.

- Ugh, abomination!

Mommy’s head was filled with tears:

- He graduated from university, I graduated from high school, and Ninochka too, & for
who? For the savages... Oh, my God! Now please: the last pants
and the shoes - la chevro, with French ones - were eaten. Eaten!

— Shall we bring the forks tomorrow, mommy?

- Oh, don’t bother me, Ninochka. Forks, forks... Don't you know?
What is my late couple’s name day gift?

- Happy grandfather died! I wish I could see what's happening now
I would have died twice.

And now: outside the city there is a barrier, and in the city there is a selective one.
People had to buy and sell under the counter, in a whisper. Whit-
They scrambled: they sold, bought and exchanged. You won't be every woman
groping. This is the case in heated vehicles, but among pedestrians, well, screw them:
Will you catch it? Another will cover herself, tie herself up and unnoticed. Tol-
flock, and that's it.

1
34 g @-R. B, No. 8

- Citizen, something is swollen.
- The Lord did not offend you, dear. My Nikita even says that...

And he will come to the market, say goodbye and lose weight. Kerenki in stockings,
and unnoticed

- Citizen, are you thinner?

Well, here: will you ever find out right away who you were hanging out with in the morning?
- Oh, killer whale, we are dying of hunger!

- Ha ha! You cook deftly, come on in.

Not far away they were tearing up Kerenki in great demand. You can't go with them
on a brake or on a buffer somewhere in Vyatskaya. They loved it there
a pound of baked goods was a shirt for a guy or a chintz for some kind of sundress
something nice for a girl. The guy knows, he doesn’t like it when losses are
man are climbing. If he says the word, he will drive a pile, but the pile sits firmly, not
you'll survive.

Ninochka and her daddy also went. I transported all my goods. And good
there were a lot. There are about two dozen skirts with lace. Papochkin's
There are about a dozen costumes. Curtains, tablecloths, curtains, draperies, carpets,
dozens of silver cup holders, silver knives, forks, lo-
there are dozens of them, and how much gold there is: a ton! And they ate everything. Because of
This part is a scream and a bucket of tears. But daddy is on his own: he knows
where there are mouse nests, and mice don’t gnaw gold and diamonds. For gold
and diamonds are overeaten by geese - a dime a dozen. Too much cream -
spring flood. And a lotsomething else without which the table looks like an orphan.
This is how it was started by the grandfather who died. You can’t interrupt the
day: if not today, tomorrow God will come to Kaledin or Kolchak
carries to cleanse the city from Bolshevik evil spirits,

- Darling, joy!
- What, Borie Anatolyich?
- Kolchak, Omsk took.
- Lord, Lord!

Masha and her mother-in-law, Arina, did not go anywhere. With nothing.
And there was nothing to go for. They got used to the shortcomings. And the bread
at the market, there were pounds under their overcoats. There are potatoes, cabbage, you know
cheat, and there will be “sickles”. And for sickles - bread.
No. 8 FOREIGN EXPERIMENTS, 35

Fedya went to the front and said:
- Mom, not a single cabbage to the market. And there will be a surplus,
better cheaper than: well, you know who - who at the front

someone or so is spinning in the wheel - from our brother, that means -
Do you understand?

- Okay, Fedivnka. It will be as you said. There's Masha
will do it, if possible. She's smarter.

So Fedya Kalyanov got into the car, which rolled and
the hall throw out loud songs from both sides.

And Masha waved a white dove over her head and whispered:

- Have a good time, my beloved, don’t forget.

Arina was crying. Tears fell at first, got tired, flowed
whose. And so on all the way home, while we were walking back from the station.

And,

Today there are two holidays: the first of May and Sunday. Today ba-
there won't be a zara. Just the day before, dust from the
panicle. The square needed to be cleared of bazaars and everyday life. With
I guess I'm joking - what's with the fire. And it’s clear: Bolshevik holidays
nicknames are not church ones. Church people love candles, and after the candles, curtain
windows and sleep. The Volsheviks are not like that: here we need to move the streets apart
wider, and you can push the children’s trucks. Why is this necessary: for
It takes an hour or two to throw yourself into the irrevocable, then it will be clear.

Arina also knows today. Doesn't fumble in his pockets, ve
shows Masha a banknote with a sickle - “how much is there” and doesn’t intend to
go get a pound of bread. He also knows that yesterday’s market has been washed away
her, prepared for speeches and music. That's why he stays at home.

Arina walked away from the kerosene stove and sat down next tonohi on the stool.

- Today to the square.

Masha pinched the “ABC of Communism” with her fingers and tenderly
The husband's mother looked at her.

- Certainly. Come with me, look and listen.

She opened the window. There's a bunch of silver from the street—bird voices—and...
<stumbled around the room.

3*

{8
36 t.OZZE M, No. 8

On the other panel, on the contrary, there are two trimmed green linden trees
with their buds they talked about spring. Today they also need to be more beautiful
yesterday. Thousands of eyes will watch and rejoice in spring. And the weight is
the blue eyes of the sky looked out from behind the houses and said:

— That’s not all: the sun is still stuck in the backyard, now
I’ll pick it up in an hour, like a katana, a katana, and let it rise to your very
It's a hell of a time!

Masha looked, swallowed air as pure as spring water and
She didn’t even notice how there was a smile on her face like a butterfly. I remembered the past
year, - on the same day, together with Fedya, they carried a cradle in their arms -
the first of May blowing in the wind and they walked joyfully to the waiting square.
I remembered and sighed: and now!

She turned away from the window, buried herself in a book, so as not to remember,
which won't happen today. Everything will happen, only without Fedya. Somewhere?

I can’t hold back my thoughts, they break out and fly there, to the front, behind you -
thousands of miles away, from where he cannot wait for a letter for six months. Or
forgot or... no, no, I need it. Fedya, dear, answer!

- Okay, Mashenka, what’s going on here! Not everyone dies there.

Arina sighed, stood up, and swayed heavily to the kerosene stove.
and began to stir the puffing lentils in the pot. Licked the spoon
looked at the couple’s curly gray hair, rested her elbow on her palm,
cheek to the other and thought about the same thing,

Masha's dewdrops did not stick to her eyelashes. They flew by the wings
for a book.

And the comforting sun rolled out from behind the roof of the house and began
cover her hair, face and chest with pink kisses.

Fedya also kissed him with pink kisses.

Masha shuddered, as if she had woken up from a dream: into the room like a crane
today's cheerful message flew in:

- Bravely, comrades, keep up!

This is the beginning of the dawn day. The outskirts parted the street and
pearl to the city center to awaken boredom.
O. No.

No. 8 EXPERIENCEYOU ARE A MOUNTAIN. 37

Sh.
s

Masha’s thoughts deceived me today. In vain they flew for a thousand
miles and searched for Fedya there.

— Doctor, Comrade Kalyanov, who arrived today, demands boots.
m all that.

- What does he need?

- He wants to go outside.

- Has he gone crazy?

- I don’t know. It gets on your throat.

The doctor shrugged his shoulders in surprise.

- I'll come now.

The sister reluctantly left the office, and the doctor looked after her,
frowned on his sixty-year-old face and grumbled:

“Devil knows what kind of sisters they are—they won’t even be able to criminalize a sick person.”
rit. The man was shaken for a thousand miles, and if you please!..

He put a cigarette butt in the ashtray, adjusted his glasses and trotted towards
doors.

Kalyanov stood between the beds by the window. Excited look
ran out into the street, choking. I drove my forehead across the glass, it became boring, you...
standing up straight and blocking half the window with his bearish figure.

- Kalyanov, you are not ordered to get out of bed.

He froze, turned back and became embarrassed.

- Saetritsa, I just...

Nothing, nothing - lie down!

Again today is stirring in my soul. Visible again
now it's lured. More conscientious of his momentary confusion and shift-
zero eyebrows. “Damn it, if you have such a shoe with them, you won’t get out.”
dare!

— Did you call the foothill district council? Will he come?

- He will come. Lie down.

- I won't go to bed today. Give me boots, a tunic, a cap...

- Toe-toe, calm down! Your illness...

- Doctor, I don’t care about this disease. On this day I will die
here, do you understand? I want to go outside.

{9
38 VOR No. 8

The doctor came up and began to catch the pulse with his fingers.

- But, after all...

“And I don’t want to bullshit.” Let's get some boots! I'll leave in just my underwear, she-
God, doctor...

-Where will you go in the end?

- My mother and wife are here. All year... I'll go to the square...

- They can come here too.

- I'll go myself. Doctor, let me go! I am healthy, I assure you. Ve-
I'll be back later. Let me go, doctor, I'm tired of it.

The doctor shrugged his shoulders, stepped back and looked at him with kind eyes.
I began to look at Kalyanov. Kalyanov also looked and could not
hide smiles. After all, his father, a foundry worker, was exactly the same:
a little affectionate old man whoalways held my head up
than it should.

The doctor also smiled.

- Well, okay, the jester tickle you! Just need to do a bandage
now. Sister, take care of yourself, but be careful of the wound, watch.

He said and trotted out of the tent.

Kalyanov narrowed his eye and looked at the bald, swede-
the back of his head, hugged his sister with joy and whispered in her ear:

- My father was the same.

That.

Opposite the choir: daddy, mommy and Ninochka. In a row.

Daddy on his knees. Unshaven chin, like a sock from a va-
Lenka, fumbling on the floor: '

“Where, where can we find these damned Kerenoks?” At least on th-
lentils

A thin, unwashed frock coat hung on his shoulders. (

Mommy, looking at the long horseradish nose of the Mother of God, passionately
stuck a bunch of fingers into her forehead and whispered:

— It’s a pity, but you have to: the forks are all brand new; mistress ma-
carcass...

Ninochka examined the ceiling. Stuck divine
eyes at the main devil and collected thoughts.
No. 8: FOREIGN EXPERIMENTS. 39

And the main devil has tied a chain around the line of sinners and is pulling them towards
to yourself. The kings in crowns stand first, followed by the priests in kamilavkas,
daddies in top hats, mommies, etc. The last ones to shiend in the support
kah and wearing only tramp shirts.

The second devil, apparently, has gone completely crazy: he’s jumping like a goblin from behind
he stuns everyone with the club behind him.

One tramp looks angrily at the devil and seems to say:

— There were clubs on the ground. There were clubs in heaven. They came here -
also clubs. May you burst, you horned goat!

Ninochka doesn’t understand this. She only knows:

- Lord, if only all the Bolsheviks were like this...

Along with the incense, the old woman's stench floated around the church: drowning,
You can't split it with a cleaver.

The headman, no matter how strong, is thirty years old, although he has plenty of experience.
I was fermenting, but today something is especially wrinkled. Dragged along
needles and collected neovetskie. And something else was rattling in my head:

t - Either it happened: both copper and black-branched, it happened and s0-
lots - clang, clink - fun.

In the middle of the church, the overcoat gets lost, looks around and yawns
all over the walls. On one wall is the old man of hosts with his bare feet,

? slightly covered with a blue sheet and flyingholding his hands out like a pan-
the lump was kicked out of the bathhouse.

- Hmmm...

-Are you okay, soldier?

- Nothing... Pray, grandma.

From the altar the thousand-year-old wheezed like rust:

- Pack-pack...

From the choir they threw a drawn-out ovria in groups:

- Lord, have mercy.

And from the street shrapnel burst into the open doors and hit
the backs of their heads - completely different from this:

- Neither a god, nor a king, nor a hero.

Foreheads turned towards the door, and the backs of heads towards the altar. Father and so
okay: you can itch the back of your head too. Crawled out of the altar like a bug
hind legs, pulled his hand out from under his robe and raised it:

- We are at war with the world...
40 G. "©. R.N"; No. 8

Before the balyushka had time to finish, suddenly at the door, as if
The rock-colored German suitcase slammed into itself and tore:

- And a determined bbboy!

The blow was so strong that the choir was even confused, growing
reeling, opened his mouths and swallowed the street whole. And, instead of
give the priest an answer and sing “Lord, have mercy,” regent Markelych
took it out of the blue:

- From the international...

I immediately came to my senses, fussed, forgot what to sing, and forgot
what the father sang. I had to dare:

- A-ami-yin.

Things didn't get better. The International raised everyone's nerves.

Father even sat down. I heard the chickens clucking and grunting
the pig, the priest, is swearing. I even heard the pots breaking, but...
such a passion of the Lord has never existed. I was so scared, I stood there
and did not breathe - put it in the coffin.

Ninotchka looked up from the ceiling and squealed.

Mommy's forks and mistress flew out of her head and gasped.

Daddy cleared his throat. And with every scrap of cough flew out
heads according to the kerenka.

The overcoat did not have time to properly examine the naked Christ in
Jordan burst out laughing.

The headman dropped the plate, quacked and opened his mouth.

The watchman walked around someone with a curse word.

The old women hissed and coughed. The stench stirred and rose
even thicker.

Someone accidentally hit someone, and a tick flew up to the ceiling like a siskin.
rank. They touched Michael the Archangel with their elbow: shuffling from side to side
side, scratched himself and, like a warlike man, could not resist: he lost his temper
from the wall, hit his forehead on the floor and crumbled to pieces. Kaput.

Father, holding his head, straightened up, stepped forward and... you-
a rough roar came out of his mouth:

- At least close the doors!
No. 3 FORGE EXPERIMENTS. 41

And he attacked the choir with his fists.
- You fiend of hell, anathemas, what have you done!
While they were closing the doors, another flew in from the street:

- To a bloody battle!..

t.

When the lake sways with sails, you can’t get tired of looking. When oz
Ro sings songs to the vastness - you can’t get tired of listening. To be a stone - if you get tired
see and hear today.

The dawn torn from the horizon, striped into small strands,
brought to the square to show itself to the day.

She can no longer hide behind the forest and field in the gloomy slope of the city.
horizon, - set fire to yesterday's market, torn out from under the floor, and
glowed brighter. This, after all, is what is needed. They waited, they said it would be, she came.
It hit the ground - is it strong, mother, and soared into the heights?
over their heads. Watching—you can’t hold your heart. Count these bundles—
you doubt it. Smaller torn, wider scattered - not in vain. From small
You can't sew enough scraps into a shirt in a day. So where is such a community co-
take your tourniquets and return to the night! And the square is the plaits that are blazing
kumachem - loves. Evona, there are so many of them! You can’t count them. The entire width of the stake is
the earth sighs. You can’t look around everything, the hat is falling off.
And from the sides everyone is falling down, everyone is falling down. The sun laughs and dances
the wind and the windows of piles of bricks are an eyesore.

Thousands of eyes spread the backs of the front heads and feel, feel
the podium, where Kolyanov is led up arm-in-arm, and - like a front-line soldier -
first word: I begged the city district committee to do so.

A voice rolled down like debris:

- Comrades! Hello, so this is how it is: congratulations
on behalf of...

Two “ah, ah” words flew up from below. One “ah” is sonorous, the other
thicker.

I looked there, met two pairs of eyes glowing with joy, smiling
I was awakened by it and illuminated myself. The swell in my chest got worse, I forgot completely
about his bandaged head and his hand tied with a bandage on his chest.

22
42 SE I No. 8

I only managed to push down: “On behalf of the front,” when suddenly the square
as if stuffed with dynamite, it exploded:

- Hurrah!..

Fedya has been waiting for a long timewas quiet, waited and began to chip and roll
from the rostrum: Siberia, the front, Kolchak, special department and much more. Unvalistaya
the figure was shaking, and under it the stand was creaking from effort.

And when he threw out the last “long live”, the “yes” flew over
“Hello” across the entire square and hit daddy in the back of the head,
Mommy and Ninochka, who were hurrying home from church.

Daddy couldn’t resist and turned around.

- Look, Olya, this is the same scoundrel who stole our
I'll listen. } >

Mommy looked and stuck out her lower shaver.

- Yes, but it seems he married Mashka.

- Nothing like that! - Ninochka squealed: - You yourself know,
that I won’t miss a single wedding. After all, I should have seen
them in the church!

Daddy calmly flicked a louse off his sleeve and finished:

“Well, Nana, savages don’t need this.

Their conversation got stuck in the sounds of the orchestra that soared and flew
all over the sprawled place, everywhere, not big and
small town.

Ingenuity.
= AND SKILL
Team.

A MOMENT OF INVENTION AND MASS.
MAYEVKA and ANTIKERZON.

Even on the eve of May Day, evenings were held in Moscow clubs—
and memories, and literary and musical - “with all sorts of things”,
starting from the tragic howls of artists with “experiences” and
ending with the tightly padded verses of the left. The districts were buzzing with preparations.
march to Mayevka. The districts were left to their own devices, they refused
services of “central” art workers and tried their own strengths.
This was the most valuable thing. The periphery of Moscow was moving, inventing
The bodily cones in the brain were working at full speed. I had to make it up
slogan, but what is it that you are used to and that would slip
over the eyes, without diving into them, but the new one is stronger, thicker. It is necessary
it was impossible to sit in a puddle in front of the neighbors, decorating houses and squares,
equipping carnival processions.

It must be said that regional Moscow took its first exam for
regional amateur performances in artistic ingenuity
survived Mayevka 1923 with honor.

In the demonstration, except for the posters, where the slogans of the day are “down with fa-
schism", "united front“ and “smychka” found new words and 0bo-
companies—entire menageries walked on trucks with stuffed animals and
dey and inscriptions; hanging above the crowd were suspended on poles and
stuffed enemies of the proletariat on the gallows. District troupes, ecena
which fit on truck platforms, drove around the squares
with parsley and propaganda pieces. Proletkult moved in a whole procession
performance “Simplicity is enough for every wise man”, dressed in
The actors' costumes bore the inscriptions: Joffre, Fascist, Emigrant. Ahead
there was a banner of the day with the inscription:

“Down with art - a dream,”
Build art - work“...

And workers' unions and factory demonstrations responded with demonstrations
their work - they carried huge boards on poles, on which
in the following order, as on school textbooks, placed
samples of materials, successive stages of their processing and, finally,
products produced by a factory or plant. This show, show of yours
labor is perhaps the most valuable thing in shows. As before on holidays
©]

46 O: No.

With such joy, a man went to a man to turn his soul inside out, so
Here the plant turned its production insides out to the plant.

And no matter how disgusting the weather was, brainy, gloomy,
Damaged by the rain, Mayevka came out joyful, the air was clearly beating in chorus
slogans:

- Long live the first May sun!

Cars rattled, overflowing with children. And long to
at night the crowds buzzed through the squares, devouring the orchestras with their eyes and ears,
movie screens, recitation, farce, performances, choral songs.

One more touch. Mayevka had no enemies.

It is worth remembering all the October demonstrations.

They have two opposite sides: - crowded with workers
ranks of the street, and—a panel full of indifferent, sour and indifferent
Renne-disapproving crowd. Offended by the revolution, I don’t trust-
for October.

In this opposition one can always feel most clearly
class enmity, Street and panel. This was not the case in Mayevka. And uli-
The tsa and the panel were blooming with red bows. There were not two camps. This
has already been noted in the press. Comrade Steklov in Izvestia from this conclusion
chill,that May has become a “national” holiday, that it has taken root.
Maybe the ego is true, but the question is: should it be welcomed? Yes
the danger of making every religious holiday too big
an influx of sympathetic ordinary people. We must remember that our roars
Holidays are not so much holidays as they are shows of strength. Still coming
struggle, and it is important that its spirit be in the crowds. Maybe I should be angrier
and laugh more sarcastically, swear more angrily, sense the trenches more keenly
class enemies—here, nearby, at your side, so as not to lose your
volitional eye.

And—another demonstration. English note. Murder of the Thief.
The dynamite in the grenades began to rumble. Anxiety. Russia bares its teeth.
And a new all-Moscow anti-Curzon demonstration.

It is more revealing than Mayevka because it was announced literally
really suddenly. There was no preparation for it; can't be alarming
Evening and working mornings are considered sufficient time for preparation.
At this demonstration, the districts were no longer passing an exam. Ego was
a swift answer “from the spot,” and the answer sounded clear: “yes.”

During the night, couplets and quatrains of slogans were scribbled on the billboards
new. And hard and sharp. We came up with it ourselves.

Here is an effigy of Curzon dangling from the gallows.

The mouth is a portrait of a pot-bellied capitalist, and the inscription:

- “Lord Curzon is getting ready to go on a campaign.”
#8 INVENTION AND CRAFTMANSHIP. 47

Capital muzzle (on-ekoro, on a board, coal or something), and in front
her tasty fig. Signed: “our response to Curzon’s note.”

Curzon © with a fishing rod on the Murmansk coast, and the signature: “Not me-
Let me go fishing."

In the corner of the theater square, above the crowd, Ker-
zonal scarecrow.

The youth goes and clearly mints Mayakovskoe -

“Russia will not be under the Entente.
Left! Left! Left!“
Right there on the square they chant S. Tretyakov’s verse;
“This is not the first time we’ve seen
In the eyes of trouble“....—e chorus:
"Hey Curzon,
Don't be a bully!“
People are copying and learning all around - the verse goes from group to group.
group.
Choral marching reading definitely acquires all rights, equal to
not with the song - it is stronger than the song, because the word is revealed in it,
and the melody does not drown out the soundthe precision of a marching rhythm.

And the chorus of slogans cultivated by young people is
amazing organizing technique that distinguishes our street crowd
from the fairground hubbub!

Moscow districts, factories, factories and proletarian youth
knows how to laugh caustically, evilly, confidently and originally.

She proved it 12? May.

And one more touch. m

More than once I had to be indignant at the stamping of our slogans,
especially in the high moments of pre-battle tension, when these
slogans flow from all the cracks of the region and end up face to face,
nickel to nickel similar and fading.

In the Far East N. Chuzhak (brochure “On Sore Topics”)
devoted a large amount of time to this phenomenon of stamping oath resolutions
chapter. In issue No. 2 of the magazine “Lef,” A. Vinokur examines the template
the use of slogans as something to be eradicated.

Even a glimpse of the re-reads collected in No. 106 of Izvestia
resolutions regarding the English note (in the note “Voices from the Machines”)
shows that the hackneyed verbal template - “We send a curse on the city”
catching minions" and "we swear at the first call"—replaced by business
that and expressive form, clearly created by the initiative of that cell,
where the resolution was drawn up.

2$
48 E: B | No. 8

Here are some random examples:
- “The Republic of the Working People is not an English colony.”
(Workers of the sewer school).

- “We believe that to please the slave owner Curzon, the Soviet
The Republic will not recall its best representatives from

countries of the East"
(Workers of the 7th bakery).

- “In response to the claims of the British government, we demand
presenting him with a counter-invoice for the blood of Russians, Indians, Irish
ski and many other revolutionaries, for `all the losses caused-
given to us by England in the civil war. They cost more

than the life of all imperialist robbers.”
(Workers, Red Army soldiers and “Cup” employees).

- “We are deeply outraged by the impudent and shameless interference -
influence into our affairs under the pretext of protecting the “oppressed innocents”
“steys,” priests, spies of all colors, bandits, fishermen. around
digging the shores with the blessing of their government
our distant outskirts from thator impudence and unceremoniousness,
how their bloodthirsty government robs the oppressed nations

kinship in their colonies."

(Workers of the Mostorstroy plant).

- "Governor Chicherin, be firm in your post! Do not give in to intimidation -
givaniyu, We, the workers. we stand behind you. Comrade Trotsky, order
keep the gunpowder dry!“.

U (Workers and employees of radio-machine and

r radio laboratory plants).

- “The note and the murder of our representative, Comrade Vorovek, showed

They say that a new attack on the workers' republic is being prepared. We

We demand from our government to give a worthy answer to the impudent

British imperialism. We call on the English and French

big-bellied workers to support us in our struggle. We don't

Let us allow interference in our internal affairs. We don't
Let’s allow us to be treated like a colony.”

(Workers of the Khamovnichesky district).

“We, the workers, refuse to accept such international law.”

which allows the British to plunder our fishing wealth.

The general meeting calls on the workers to put Lord Curzon on
place! Hands off our Soviet republic,

(Workers of “Red Vladimirovka”).
#8 INVENTION AND CRAFTMANSHIP 49

- “We are ready, not in words, but in deeds, to become a weapon at any moment.”
life in our hands to defend the proletarian Soviet power, which
Now the English imperialists are threatening and trying to disrupt
the beginning revival of economic construction of slave-
Che-peasant republic."

(Workers and employees of the 7th printing house).

- “The General Meeting understands quite clearly that the basis of this
impudent document lies in hating the government of the workers-Creats-
Yang country. and an increased desire to help Urquhart and the oilmen
companies to receive concessions on enslaving terms for 60-

Gateway of Russia."
(Workers and employees of the Motor plant).

- “We demand from the government of the USSR a decisive rebuff to all
those who are trying to disrupt the tactics of the united workers with a new war

th front."
(Working factories 6. Dosuzhev).

- “We, workers and employees, if our government requires it for
guarding our conquests, always ready"We give our lives."

(Employees of the Rogozhsko-Simonov Council“).

- “We remind all capitalists, and first of all the English ones,

skim, that the Soviet republic is not their colony, that they can’t come to us

apply the same techniques that they apply to the peoples of Vo-

stock, We demand our government to remain steadfast, as before

until now, and the confidence that behind him there are millions of people
of the working people of the Soviet republics."

(Workers of Russian Cable Plant No. 3, res.
weed factory and nail factory).

- “The English king and Lord Curzon in their note demand “compensation”
sations to the injured lady." For her sake, we will not compromise our interests
our coastal half-starved fishermen and conservation interests

our coastline."
(Workers of the “.Schmo” plant).

What all these constructions have in common is their compressed efficiency, similar
on a paragraph from an article, on a polemical paragraph, on a tribunal ridicule-
great reception.

In the same plan of searching for expressively acting compact
newspaper headlines (sold out) will also progress.

4

25
50 GO No. 8

The main sold-out No. 105 of Pravda sounds like an energetic
want:

8 response to Curzon's provocative ultimatum,
in response to the revolver shots of the Lausanne assassins—
thunder of indignation swept across our country.

Millions walked along the streets of our cities.
Millions voted in the squares with the slogan:

Everything for the world! Everything for the opportunity to work!
But NEVER. NEVER. will NEVER be a slave

Soviet country!

Clever layout, parodic use of the English chorus
hymn (“never, never, never will an Englishman be a slave”)
purely poetic device of anaphora:

"In response to...

In response to...

Millions walked...
Millions voted“...

The origin of this title with the tone of revolutionary heroic poems is
Mayakovsky's orders undoubtedly. Annoying weaknesses in the title:
“the thunder of indignation swept through” - worn down to the point of loss of expressiveness;
and—the “possibilities” of labor—an abstract length that breaks up the composition
positional parallelism in the penultimate line, th

And finally, the sense of rhyme in the construction is noteworthy:

"everything"for labor"

x “What never, never, never.”

This analysis is no longer a doctrinaire search for aesthetics
in an effective slogan, but only an indicator that experiences and lessons
poetry laboratories should be applied (and they are applied) to the task
practical knowledge.

Headline of “Working Moscow”:

KAMENEV.
UKHARIN. |
MEETING TROTSKY. Let's not kneel!

- excellent not only because of its great savings, but the entire chapter is omitted
heavy information-binding cargo, but also expedient to use

>

#8 INVENTION AND CRAFTMANSHIP 51

calling the vertical. In this construction, it is used for the purpose of expressing
significance of the classification principle. This is almost a questionnaire, taken
card. Means of expression are evenly ungrouped and tightly padded
in each section, the force effect dramatically wins in comparison
at least with the following headline from the same newspaper:

“Indignation at the note, anger at the murder of Comrade Vorovekogs—that’s what I felt.”
qualities with which the hearts of the Moscow workers, who yesterday endured
resolution in factories and factories, and today demonstrating
streets of Moscow. Their slogan is

Down with Curzon's bloody policies! Down with international sub-
burners—murderers!*“

Long information-constructed period, lack of differentiation

again, the traditional “down with” makes the title neutral, gray
spot, Also: from the same “Working Moscow” - tightly and concisely unfolded
horizontally inflated header:

KAN AND HIM KILLED Comrade Vorovsny.

From around the corner, a bullet to the back of the head, by a fascist - a Swiss prisoner.

The same goes for poetry. Epigrammatic two- or four-
<silence is the form required by the posters of our demonstrations. This
the form requires great constructive prudence and invention
sincerity, because not a single word should be wasted. It should be noted

‚ Quite closely meeting these requirements is the ‘quaternary’,
depicted on posters and in “Working Moscow”.

“Glory to the fallen.”
Revenge for murderers.
When they call us,
Let’s answer: yes!”

(S. Rodov).

Only the first two lines of it are compositionally strong; lexical
chesically unsatisfactory: “scabby”, “murderer”m", "glory", - it is necessary
find words not so ritually used - s

The same requirement for a different, lapidary, even, phonetically dense
rhythmically sharpened style, ‘presents our street style-
boor of the marching type, who read in chorus on the move. h

“In Working Moscow” the poem “Call” (Leo-
new) - exactly this type. Everywhere after the line there is a pause for
vadoha,—a monosyllabic rhyme transfers the final stress to the beat

4*

"$
52 S d: No.

#2]

legs. Phonetics is condensed:

"The beeps are calling
The call of ringing days.
—The drums are beating.
- Brother, stand up tighter.

Many fighters will fall...

The links will be replaced by new ones.

New things are coming to us
Through blood.

The enemy is fierce before death.

Well! On strike - strike.

Will they fill it with lead?
World fire.

And with offensive dissonance, abstract and resonant, they sound
lines:
“Press the levers harder,
Think under the creaking of the cutter"—
or:
“Rye thoughts—to the call”
“We ate in one temper.”

There is nothing to grab onto in them. The pacing rhythm is off. And “rye”—
this epithet, beloved by new peasant poetry, is already older and more mature
more digital than “blood - love”.

Also: slogan quatrain from “Working Moscow”:

They didn’t hide their lusts
In a stream of verbal water,—
Vorovsky was stabbed in the heart
Lead dot over I

The first two lines are constructed in a bookish, intellectual way. Latest
two is a good indicator of how dangerous it is to deal with worn-out
aphorisms. To feel the sharpness of the expression “dot over 1”, you must
this is “1” to have in the alphabet, but we haven’t had it for 5 years, in this way, for
the majority, and especially those who became literate in only 5 years,
the severity requires further explanation. Then - logical twist
tas: “A lead dot was driven into the thief’s heart above 1”—double
meaning: either they stuck a point into the heart, or over and - poster flashiness
slogan erased.
#8 INVENTION AND CRAFTMANSHIP 53

As examples of

no need to write kav.

but as people write who stubbornly refuse to change the shape of the room
lyricism, built in old poetic templates, on common
telial adaptation of poetic materialto the requirements of the revolution
tionary reality, we will cite poems (in other newspapers).
“On the death of Vorovsky”—V. K. and P. Oreshina.

F

To the killers comrade. Vorovsky.

Vile murderers, kings; bankers, lorls,
.Evil executioners in fascist cloaks,
On your snouts, mouths, fox faces,
When you rush, we will lower our swords!
Cultural panthers, enraged bastards,
Apostles of the whip to the workers of all countries,
How happy your dirty heart is,
When will there be a titan in the coffin!
You are our loop, a lathered loop,
You are our chopping block... You are our target!
But we did not fall in the struggle, but grew stronger,
We are preparing your last day for you!
You hit us from around the corner like cowards
Stealthily, like dogs bite at night.
But your mean and low bites
On the day of judgment we will put it on the scales!
In crowns, in bowlers, in top hats - boors,
Do you need to rob? - the number will not work!
To all noble bastards a well-deserved pit
The working people were dug out by suffering!
For Soviet Power, for the red hero,
Killed by a banker's hand,—
Speak before the might of the world
With your stupid, criminal head!

2 Petr Oreshin.

Soviet Ambassador.
(To the death of Comrade V.V. Vorovskaya).

Alone among the enemy camp!
Among the rulers, in the murder of the sick!

zz
Among the frenzied chain peons

And slave servants of the master's pocket!

You didn’t listen to mad slander,

With contempt you threw at the powerless court:

- I'm standing here, Ambassador of the Soviets,

And I won’t leave voluntarily!

I. you died - killed by a hired gang of nobles...
Comrade-in-arms of Lenin, herald of proletarian truth!

V.K.

About the last one:

'A third-rate cross between Nadeon and Alexei Tolstoy.

Epithets: enemy camp, frenzied chain dogs, slave servants,
furious slander, thrown with contempt, unequal court, mercenary gangs.

At the same time, we note that “slave servants” and “powerless court” are expressed
say the opposite of what the author wanted to say, for he, apparently,
speaks of servile servants and unfair courts.

Vocabulary: ruler, comrade-in-arms, herald,

Rhymes: obdurate, frenzied, lordly-proletarian.

Man due to weak skill and great commitment
"by eye" to the "great examples" - with a big, wouldmaybe sincerely
ity—wrote something very tongue-tied in our situation
practically inapplicable.

Pyotr Oreshin, the same one who cries during debates about what
Today's poets have “divorced the technology and forgotten the man”—trying to
lengthy, again, perhaps sincere, but deeply neurotic
swear in amazing verse. But he swears so sadly and pays
killers with such verbal great-grandmother's pennies that after
On the third line I would like to advise him:

Oreshin! And you have to swear skillfully. Swearing is not only meant
meaning of the word, but also in its sound-rhythmic setting. And intelligent
swearing is just: writing a price list of offensive words.

Here are his curse words:

Murderers, vile, evil executioners, snouts, mouths, fox faces,
cultural panthers, enraged bastards, apostles of the whip,
dirty heart, vile and base bites, boors, noble
bastard, stupid criminal head.

This poem contrasts sharply with its resonant chamber-
similarity with the already noted headlines of the same Pravda.

The speech was a phenomenon of exceptional power and expressiveness
peasant woman Vaktorova at the Plenum of the Moscow Soviet (that's who to learn from
#8 INVENTION AND CRAFTMANSHIP 55

Oreshin). Some of its parts are the strongest (even with all
naivety at times) from all the slogans made:

- Comrades, they will choke on our bones...

— The enemies want to slaughter our Army, slaughter our Reds
roosters

“I will give my heart to the Soviet government for ammunition.”

“Let them hit the bourgeoisie over the heads with me.”

“We don’t want to fight, we don’t have time, we are building.”

— I am choking with hatred of the bourgeoisie, which fucks me
in your teeth with your fist.

“I saw his (Grotsky’s) courage and could not sit still,
I jumped for joy that he, dear comrade, is so strong, can
fight and won’t even mention that he’s afraid of anyone.”...

Let this leveling be the fruit of intuition, and not conscious
skill, but masters must take into account such examples and build
a conscious system of speech planning, using all techniques, especially
if these techniques interfere inproletarian thick.

—” Some conclusion.

Specialists in lyrical auto-outpourings will go into the closets of life, if not
will be able to listen to the masses and understand how to organize words
spring material to influence it. Newspapers in separate
cases already feel the organizing significance of a constructive approach,
based on knowledge of the material and the ability to master it - newspapers are clearly
moving along the path of unqualified speech performance.

The masses, deep within themselves, formulate their verbal assignments,
achieving excellent results in terms of alignment and performance
the property of the constructions.

Three marked displays of word work—street 1 May, 12 May and Ga-
Zetas May 12—speak for a clear, albeit slow, shift in the search
a socially necessary, extremely expressive word.

The moment is characterized by not naked pathos, which has lost over time.
expressiveness, but efficiency, sharp mockery, artistic invention
tality—coming from the bottom. -

This means that the laboratory of expressive art is not a laboratory
the rhetoric of a handful of specialists, but the very thick of the masses, and it works at its best.

28
Rocket. *

THEATER WORK EXPERIENCE.
SIMPLICITY IS ENOUGH FOR ANY WISE.

Political buffoonery in five acts, with a prologue and epilogue, according to
Ostrovsky.

Reworking the text—bS. M. Tretyakov.

Directing—S. M. Eisenstein.

Performed by the 1st Workers' Theater of the Moscow Proletkult.

This piece, staged in May 1923 on the stage of the Moscow
Proletkult, created around itself a lively exchange of opinions and
attracted undoubted interest, especially aggravated by the fact that she
is the first attempt to connect the circus and eccentric theater
within the walls of Proletkult. On this basis—060bo passionate polemic:
can this kind of art have any relation to art?
proletarian life?

INTRODUCTORY WORD.

The main lily of the struggle in theatrical reality is
between two fronts: 1) illusory theater and 2) effective
theater Illusory theater builds its impact on the viewer in
series of “feelings” in the personalities portrayed on stage,
vlyaallows the viewer to “empathize” with the actor’s psychological conflicts,
degenerating the spectacle itself into a certain process in itself. Effective
theater, sweeping aside metaphysics and the unnecessaryness of the so-called stage. "guts" and
experiences, demonstrates on stage organized in words and
human action—one and two—uses all possible scenic
cultural provisions, based on a clear awareness of the impact on
viewer that should be rendered. Thus, in an effective
theater there is an obvious accounting (albeit imperfect, technique
it will be improved along with the improvement of all organizations
tion forms), taking into account the auditorium as a perceiving mass,
to be processed in terms of a distinct social task, and
taking into account all expressive media that are used for this purpose
must be carried out by a stage worker in stage traffic
new
#8 INVENTION AND CRAFTMANSHIP

[A

Because of this, an effective Theater, mindful of its social
the importance of the organizer of emotions in terms of class tasks, based on
today's practice (from which only practice can grow
tomorrow), breaks with the stage illusion of “authenticity”, “unfictional
laziness“ of the performance, ends with the aesthetic (separated from practical
ki of today) by the internal interdependence of its parts.
He also breaks with the means of such organization of the illusory world—
historical and everyday makeup, costume, decoration (Meyerhold).

Effective theater attracts the interest of its audience
nicks—and to the very process of combining elements to obtain
desired effect; he is not afraid to let the most powerful impressioners into the theater
to form material objects and methods of our material everyday life
(the same Meyerhold - “The Earth Stands on End”). He does not hide the attack on
the psyche of the viewer, which is done by an actor who does not imitate, does not
“pretending” that he is working, but really working with his own
muscles, among deliberately designed or placed weights
cabbage soup, which either help him develop a system of movements, or
participate ‚how ‚impressed"representative" elements. Hence the departure from decoration
naturalistic and symbolistic and props, the task of which
aggravate the illusion and create “moods”, moving towards constructive
machines and things that the actor effectively handles.

In terms of an effective theater, it is possible to build an agitation theater,
advertising theater, adventure theater (detective), production theater, -
this is a division according to the purpose of presentation; according to the methods of processing mathematics
rial, we have a bio-mechanical theater, a sports theater, and an eccentric one.
The latter is what interests us in this case.

Eccentric theater conceives of stage spectacle as a process
processing the audience by means of stage influence. Installation
performance is the invention and selection of such provisions that you
are called maximum and psychological effect. This kind of polo-
The rides are called attractions. Actors, things, sounds—the essence is nothing
other than the elements from which the attraction is built; director of art
selects attractions and coordinates them with each other, based on tasks
performance.

In order for the attraction not to be perceived in terms of organization
ical experience as an illusory position, and at the same time
kept the viewer's attention riveted to himself, he should be un-
familiar to the viewer, to alarm him, to intrigue him. In order to
so that it is not felt as an event in which the viewer is in agreement
experiences takes part, but only as a material reason
for one or another psychological effect, against the general background of non-
waning interest, the attraction is built using the hyperbole method,

ocus, parody (hence the philistine “eccentric”). Main
53 building: a: No. 8

the tone of the psyche of the visual shaft is intensely attentive and main
There are two reactions—emex and lightened voltage discharge. Ekecentri-
Polish theater as a given compositional material
called by the practice of the circus, etc. variety show (music hall), i.e. spectacles,
made up of a number of separate attractions that have no differences between
constitutes a plot connection.

The practice of the circus (which is now being looked at with great attention)
action is givenmilitary theater) has the peculiarity that in the circus there is always
demonstrates work, skill, ingenuity, that element
falsehood or dishonesty and cannot take advantage of the illusion
(in the theater you can cheat, throw in a gag or a rooster - in the circus
Neither an acrobat, risking his head, nor a clown, risking
that, instead of laughter or deliberately induced confusion,
ray of indifferent silence).

“THE SAGE” IN PROLETKULT.

Built exactly according to the type of installation of shares, the main
zom, parodic and acrobatic in nature. Each link
Ovia was processed in this regard, and was involved in participating in the cartoon
not only the word and action of the actor, but also parody makeup, clothes,
things, music. The stage is replaced by an arena on which they are located
projectiles with the help of which the attraction is carried out (using
circus performance). The assessment of attractions and their propaganda significance is given by the current
st, and in some places the text itself is used as a basis for speech
attraction, the plot is based on the text (the use of the theater).

WHY WAS OSTROVSKY TAKEN?

According to the director, Ostrovsky in the unfolding of the action
and the intrigue of his plays comes from eccentric premises, and
His principle of attraction is clearly felt in a number of places.
Oh, this eccentric skeleton of his dramaturgy is crushed by literary
new everyday life, in terms of which Ostrovsky still appreciates
only. Clearing away the eccentric skeleton of comedy, lolu-
We are looking forward to the opportunity to historically and effectively link yesterday’s
dramaturgy © today's technology. Breaking away from the fetish of the “great”
name“, making it serve the tasks of today.

TEXT PROCESSING.

Leaving Ostrovsky’s scheme and implementing it in a number of ex-

tric attractions, they meant to get political satire. For | ?

>

No. 8 INVENTION AND CRAFTMANSHIP 59

For this purpose, the attractions were built in terms of mainly parodies -
nom. To develop a political satirical review (divertism)
ta) “For every wise man” was favorable: activeI'm intrigued
ha, led by the hero Glumov in a neutral cartoon environment,
and the disruption of this intrigue by Golutvin’s counter-intrigue—give a rich
material for the situation in terms of today. Action withdrawn
from Ostrovsky’s environment and transferred to the emigration situation; produced
dena podetanovka characteristics: on Goridulina a faciette is decorated,
on Krutitsky - Joffre, on Mamaev Milyukov, on Golutvin - noepach,
on Tarusina - court “salon holder” like a countess
Ignatieva. Accordingly, work was done on the text
to strengthen today's political associations that could arise
according to Ostrovsky's text. Several places have been written anew. Anew
a prologue and an epilogue were written, motivating: the first - the departure of Glumov
(counter-revolutionary scoundrel) from Sovrossiya to Paris, and the second—
the final chord with the return to Russia of Glumov, having received
went into the service of the noepach. The stage between
Glumov and Goridulin, turned into an exam in fascist
political literacy, etc.

The remaining texts of Ostrovsky are paved with aparts (claimed
public announcements) of a topical nature. The purchase method was used
years, both new (“Paris on the Seine”) and old (“The priest had

- dog”, “The children came running into the hut”), which in the latter case sound

parodic chat. The textual summary thus appears to us
in two aspects: 1) he ties the attractions into the plot and 2) he himself
is a topical element participating in the attraction not
only by its bare semantic scheme, but also by the special character of its sound
kovical construction of speech (clown speech, detective compact speech).

INSTALLATION OF ATTRACTIONS.

The main and most significant work in the production. Required
huge preliminary work on acrobatic training
ditch The performers were selected based on their physical characteristics.
so that, if possible, they themselves become “live attractions.”
Work was carried out to free the actors from the so-called
go “guts” and built each of their performances consciously and ma-
stereks, in strict complianceunderstanding the plan of the attraction.

It is difficult to give an accurate description of all the attractions in a short article.
tions that make up the play. Let us point out the main acrobatic ones:
exercise with apparatus, walking on a horizontal wire and
inclined, balancing by a person on a pole (perche), somersault, tra-
petia, etc. Clowning—pouring water, lashing out in public

KU.
60 E V ZK. No. 8

tied to the tray of dishes, working with sounding objects,
all sorts of mimicry, etc.; focal illusions of disappearance
man, moving portrait, burning eyes; parody—theater
cultural and everyday parody (church rituals, manner of playing different
theaters), detective stories (kidnapping, searches, masks), etc. p.

The costume also serves as an attraction, again parodying the circus
howling and music hall, clown face painting,

Musical accompaniment with piano and noise orchestra
Also completely parodic.

EFFECT PRODUCED.

The experience of the “Sage” was a very significant indicator
of how eccentric theater is refracted in the mass psyche.
The main task is riveted attention and increased response
(with interest) on the attractions was achieved, which spoke for the correct
the very nature of the system of such construction. But there was a whole range of details
undeveloped points that need further work
those The text did not sufficiently link the attractions into a single chain of intrigue;
some attractions that have only interaction value
{vapr., persh), so they seemed to fall out of the plot plan. General
the habit of empathy in the theater, of psychological unity
stage character, to go into an illusory-aesthetic break—
prevented spectators from experiencing the attractions as displays of inventive
style, training. The illusory theatrical performance looks like an organ-
logical-continuous phenomenon; here we have a conscious
innovation on discontinuity and greater activity of the viewer, who
must be able to navigate a wide variety of phenomena,
among those leaking.

It also confused associations and confused the psychological
effeat least that the forms of bourgeois divertissement introduced
here in a parody, are not motivated, and are therefore perceived
"seriously." Characters of an antipathetic (as assigned) nature, pro-
showing miracles of dexterity, at the same time not being discredited on stage,
which again gives rise to confusion. I had to face
with opinions that stated that “officers” (a trio of pink
leotards with chant antics) are “charming.” This opinion is naive
because it states the presence of petty-bourgeois vulgar taste, but, nevertheless,
< he must be considered, since the eccentric froyat, overcoming
spectator psychology, comes from knowledge of its usual way of life.

#8 INVENTION AND CRAFTMANSHIP 61

IS THE ART OF THE “SAGE” PROLETARIAN?

The question is largely idle, because the essence of left-wing television
achievements in art do not lie in the invention of the template that can be
would be to christen once and for all the name of proletarian art, and
invention and adaptation of forms for certain social
tasks. The question is different:

Can, judging by the example of “The Sage,” an eccentric theater
favor the development of a cheerful, confident psychological
focus in the proletarian psyche?—Maybe!

Can he help liberate the proletarian psyche from
the entanglement of an illusory-aesthetic theater that relaxes the will, displaying
corporal or self-sufficiently formal?— Maybe!

Is this theater more convenient and flexible for servicing current tasks?
agitation and advertising-propagation than the theater of organic everyday psychology
chesk drama?—It’s more convenient!

Does it give more scope than the illusory theater for development?
turning. motor and speech capabilities of the performer and
Does it require increased excitability and inventiveness?—Yes,
gives and demands!

We think that these question-answers are exhaustive in general terms.
importance and expediency, in terms of work on proletarian television
atom of the principles and methods of eccentricity applied by Proletkult
of the Russian Theater in the production of “The Sage”.

From the editor: The editors, considering the present presentation of the experience with “Mulrets” by no means
without exhaustingwho agrees, gives a full assessment in the next issue of “Gorna”
"The Sage", taking into account a number of opinions expressed by
the comrades who dealt with him, from workers to peasants
theater

3!
A. Fevralsky.

NINO IS THE TRUTH.
MASTER PROMOTION.

One of the most interesting achievements of Soviet culture is “Cinema”
True." The latest in time. origin art—
cinema, precisely due to the peculiarities of its origin,
can and should be most tangibly used by the proletariat
for his tasks. Cinema-newspaper—what could be more utilitarian?

The colossal importance of the newspaper in our revolutionary era
forced press workers to be more inventive,
and now, in addition to improvements in the newspaper itself of the usual type,
new types of newspapers appear: wall, oral, light and, finally,
cinema newspaper.

“Kino-Pravda” is our only cinema newspaper, published by Goskino
Narkomaros and is led by comrade. Dziga Vertov.

The impact of the film-newspaper is of a different order than the impact of |

an ordinary newspaper. The film newspaper depicts the events about which the printed
the newspaper explains. The newspaper sets itself the task of not only informing

mation about the events that took place, but also agitation; in the cinema newspaper this_

agitation is intensifying. Essentially, the propaganda methods are the same
and the same: tendentious (with specially distributed emphasis)
selection of material (what) and biased installation of material (how). But,
after all, there is a big difference: in a printed newspaper we read, for example, about
achievements in electrification, and in the film newspaper in front of you
work is underway to construct new power stations, we
We see before us the cultural construction of our republic. In
in the second case the impression is much stronger. In the newspaper it is often necessary
deal with such information material, to which, in order to attach
propaganda properties need to add comments. In cinema the text should
reduced to a minimum (ideally to zero), yy film material
newspapers must be organically campaigning. This makes it clear
amount of material, but increasedyou can appreciate its impact.
Kino-Pravda doubly confirms the words of Comrade. Lenyacha, said-
22 years ago: “a newspaper is not only a collective propaganda
distist and collective agitator, but also a collective organizer,”—

,
b. k k. © K
aaa V S.
№8 INVENTION AND CRAFTMANSHIP 63

confirms that, like a newspaper, it organizes the consciousness of viewers,
how art organizes their psyche in the direction of strengthening
proletarian dictatorship.

Skillful selection of material. Kino-Pravda shows Red
Army, Red Navy - sea and air, mass processions
on the days of proletarian festivities, our large industry,
achievements in technology, Soviet sports and physical culture, children
houses, educational work, in one word: youth, health
rovye, the joy of the revolutionary construction of a new life.

Ever-improving installation of material. Kano-Pravda uses
technical achievements of foreign, mainly American,
cinematography and goes further, finding his own path in film technology.
She decisively rejected all psychologism, “emotions,” relaxation.
fucking effect on the viewer. She is all in fast and precise movement,
at a strictly maintained pace; one picture doesn't last long
on the screen, and is soon replaced by others; the object is shown then from-
efficiently - large, then in the total mass of other items. Interesting
experiments with inscriptions, bright, eye-catching, sometimes moving (i.e. Rod-
Chenko), and inscriptions; data not separately, but built into the very
film (t. Vertov), `

Showing events of interest to every citizen of the USSR,
conveying them in new, expressive ways of editing, “Kino-
The truth” achieves a strong impression. She captivates the viewer
no less than the films that “made a splash” abroad. Meaning
such cinema-gazegs are especially numerous here in Russia, with our mass
howl of illiteracy. In addition, even in the presence of progressive
improving our newspapers and bringing them closer to workers and peasants
masses, their sphere of influence is still very small, since the technical-cultural
tourythe level of the peasants, and not a small part of the workers, is still so
low, that reading any newspaper represents for them considerable
Difficulty in thinking due to the lack of habit of thinking in concepts. "Kino-Pravda" at
a skillful approach can partly fill this gap, since
event image is available. everyone's perception.

“Kano-Pravda” published 16 issues during the year of its existence.
This important undertaking must be given every opportunity for
further development. It is necessary for this major achievement
Russian revolutionary cinematography has penetrated into all corners of our
Republic, displacing those Western films that are often directly
opposite to our goals.

$^.
r. VULTURES

AXIS! ETAEN SESVEY
S. Zander.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE AND PROLETARIAN
REVOLUTION.

(To summarize the recent discussion).
1, ^
0 BOURGEOISE AND PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

The discussion, the assessment of the results of which is the purpose of this
article, it was not the result of the fact that the question of the proletariat was a cultural
tour, about its essence and the prospects for its development in connection with social
statistical structure in our country and the social revolution in the West,
was put forward as an effective problem related to the practice of life
“seriously and for a long time,” but for a random reason, which could
not to be.

This random reason is concluded in a small question about...
existence of Proletkult, its role in the general cultural structure
Teletve.

Proletkult is only one of the organizational forms for
certain cultural and creative work of the proletariat, summing up
his practical experience, his creative achievements under the banner
proletarian culture. It goes without saying that the development
Tara culture in the process of socialist construction and in
process of the unfolding social revolution, remains vital
important historical task of the proletariat, regardless of

Will Proletkult exist or not, is its approach correct?

to the question and practical ways to resolve it, whether he did everything for
during its existence there was nothing but nonsense and ohbugs or
he did something useful.

The essence of the dispute is not about Proletkult, but whether there is a problem
proletarian culture, or is the very formulation of the question “empty
chatter"; Is Von connected] 96 about proletarian culture with economic
the existence of the period being experienced and, if connected, then how; and-are
the goal of building proletarian culture and developing methods
of this construction are as urgent as the tasks of economic
<construction. The discussion did not provide an answer to these main questions.

5*
68 RoF r. 5 No. 8

Thus, replacing the problem of proletarian culture
the question of the existence of Proletkult, about its ideological “heresies”,
“misconceptions” and “deviations”, - safely... brushed aside
problems in general.

That is why the discussion did not acquire the necessary scope, it was
partial nature and involved comparative
a very small part of my comrades.

That our assessment of the results of the discussion is correct,
will show consideration of the various. points of view that emerged as
in printed articles and in reports.

Here is a small article by Comrade. N. Krupskaya in Pravda; its content
very briefly: 1) Proletarian culture is a good and necessary thing, and it
the state should be involved; 2) Proletkult—sectarian organization
nation opposing itself to the state, with harmful biases,
p.i. a) considers exclusively the bearer of proletarian culture
the industrial proletariat, forgetting about the bond with the peasantry, and
6) believes that there is a class exact science (mathematics,
natural science).

Comrade I. Stepanov in his feuilletons in the same Pravda, on the contrary,
believes that there is, and very much so, a class natural science,
which is now reviving anti-Darwinism, clericalism, and what is in our
V. U. 3. the influence of bourgeois science in general, bourgeois
in method and content.

Comrade M. Pokrovsky in an article about the preparation of the red profession
is perplexed by such a “heretical” statement by Comrade. Ste-
Panova about class natural science and says: sorryit, regardless
proletarian or bourgeois point of view, any scientist, considering
under a microscope, the same object will see the same thing.

Comrade Lunacharsky in his article in Izvestia writes that
Letarian culture is a good thing, and Proletkult is not useless,
only... proletarian culture is not forged by like-minded people
movements, 16 and it is stupid to believe that all bourgeois culture is needed.
reject and create everything again.

Try to find the answer to the following articles and reports.
the question about the essence of proletarian culture - you will not find this answer,
Since all these comrades are in solidarity in... evading
analysis of the problem of proletarian culture in general and semi-sung
polite, half-contemptuous attitude towards Proletkult, insofar as
they disagreed in recognizing the Claesian nature of the exact sciences

It's hard to say whether I've ever looked at anything under the micro-
together Comrade Pokroveky, whether he checked the correctness from his own experience
No. 8 CULTURAL ISSUES 69

the truth of his statement - one thing is certain, that Comrade Pokrovsky
asserts a position that is obviously incorrect. In the history of natural science
there are thousands of examples. when various scientists under a microscope
saw not the same thing. So far the microscopic results
studies on the same objects are different. Questions
example, about the structure of protoplasm, about one or another function of the nucleus
in cell reproduction, microscopic observations of a number of artificial
ny cells, observations and work in the field of experimental
biology of the simplest organisms, etc.—obviously prove
that different scientists, depending “on the target setting”
...with both eyes, in the same preparation they see not the same thing #6.
Such a precise instrument as a microscope turns out to make it possible
ability to argue in their favor, both vitalists and. material
Stam, and, accordingly, treat the heads of his students.

Probably Comrade Pokrovsky will not. deny that idealism and
materialism in natural science in modern timesstage of zagging
capitalism outline the class divide between natural-
scientific thought approaching those striving to master scientific
knowledge of the proletariat, on the one hand, and counteracting this
aspiration, priestly-reactionary, and another, just like in the past
along this same line ran the divide between the ideology of the dying
feudal nobility and the growing advanced bourgeoisie.

Comrade Krupskaya, denying the class character in her first article,
ter of exact sciences, in his other article (“Unified Labor School”)
on this. about this he writes the following (No. 242 of Pravda); „natural science
we take it in its relation to people's work activities. That's why
It is necessary to make the choice of the material being studied especially carefully, otherwise
to place it, to regard it differently. Study methods do not change
observation and experience are the basis of this study, but the “target
The attitude “(as young people like to say) of this study is different.”

From this quotation it is clear that the statement about the non-Claesian character
exact sciences in the first article refute this directly. opposite
statement of the article just quoted, because it is quite obvious
it is clear that taking natural science “in its relation to labor activity”
whining of people,” to arrange and evaluate the material differently, to have a different
“target setting” (obviously, from the point of view of the same labor activity
telnosti), can only be a scientist and materialist, transitional
based on the point of view of the fighting proletariat, i.e. in its "target"
installation” he was in solidarity with.

It fell to Comrade to unravel this tangle of contradictions.
Yavovlev and, indeed, in his feuilletons and report he “discussed
“throws”... breaking all the threads; connecting the thought of practical par-
creative worker with Marxist ideology.

Xx
70 ZV Fy Izh. No. 8

and

For a more detailed analysis of the point of view he expresses, we
and let us turn, because this point of view expresses the opinion of a significant
the majority of party comrades who had neither time,
no opportunity to think about the essenceb problems about
letarian culture and believe that in the field of culture it is necessary
First of all, we need to “go to school for capitalism.”

Comrade Yakovlev, developing a whole “cultural” program for the development of
Bogogo Klaes, with commendable frankness, says that he does not know,
what culture is he talking about, proletarian or bourgeois? Kaza-
There would be, therefore, nothing to argue about, because the very object of the dispute is
the problem of proletarian culture is not posed, but is replaced by the question of
the immediate tasks of the educational policy of the R.S.F.S.R., and even then
not in its entirety.

But Comrade Yakovlev still cannot abandon the fundamental
answer to the question whether there is a problem of proletarian culture at all?
tours. In his report at the M.K. club, he says: “if they come to me
go with a knife to your throat with a similar question, then I will answer - this is not
What is essential, what is essential is to set the task correctly.”
Obviously, this part of the report should be understood as follows: Comrade Yakovlev under
threatened with death from the knife of a cruel proletkult member, he decides to say:
the problem of proletarian culture is not a problem, but... nonsense, something
proletcult-seco-idealistic, and therefore not having any
meanings (if not something harmful), but a specific program is
the thing is the essence. :

Comrade Yakovlev tries to support such a decisive statement
with reference to Comrade Lenin, who also once said that he did not know
learning to read and write—proletarian culture or not.

It goes without saying that this position is indisputable, but from it
in no way follows from the conclusion that the problem of the proletarian cultural
tours are nonsense.

On the contrary, Comrade Lenin attaches extremely serious importance to this problem.
meaning and its statements are so important in our debate, they
so clearly outline the Marxist approach to the question of the proletarian
skoy culture, which could be placed as the main and
controversial theses from which it is necessary to start the entire discussion.

Comrade Lenin in his famous speech on the tasks of youth unions
about proletarian culture he writes the following (emphasis added): “Vez
a clear understanding that accurate knowledge of the culture created by everyone
development of humanity, only by processing it can one build a pro-
Tara culture - without such an understanding we will not be able to solve this problem.
sew... Communism will turn into emptiness, turn into empty
I mean, a communist will only be a simple braggart if they don’t
all the knowledge acquired was processed in his mind.”
№8 CULTURAL ISSUES 71

“You must not only learn them, but understand them in such a way that
rush through it critically, so as not to clutter your mind with
mom, which is not needed, but enrich it with knowledge of all the facts, without
which a modern educated person cannot have.”

Referring to Marquez as the founder of the communist
theory and communist science, comrade. Lenin says the following:
“Everything that was created by human society, he processed
critically, did not leave a single point unattended. All that
was created by human thought, he reworked it, criticized it,
having tested it on the labor movement, and made the conclusions that were limited
bound by bourgeois frameworks or bound by bourgeois prejudices
people couldn’t do it.”

Has Marx completed this reworking and revision of the bourgeois
scientific heritage? Probably our comrades will decide to do this
give a positive answer.

Marx gave into the hands of the proletariat a powerful weapon for this transformation.
work is the new method of analysis, from the point of view of the proletarch, the entire
bourgeois culture.

‚Marx also gave a guiding point of view, which should
to correct this critical revision, this reworking, you noted
right points for resolving the issue - what is, the truth from the point of view
proletariat: the question of objective truth “is a question of theory,
and practices."

A person must prove the truth in practice, i.e. really-
strength and this-worldliness of their thinking." "Philosophers interpreted
dumped the world one way or another, but the task is to
modify."

Should the working class continue the work of Marx, guided by
specifiedand above provisions; should he collectively kill
lias and in the person of their leaders to forge the scientific instrument of their
practice, so that it would be “truth”, it would be fully correlated
regarding this practice; and - isn’t this a vitally important concern?
dachas of the class - these are the questions to which the Marxist has two answers
it can't be. And this means: in the process of struggle and construction
develop your own proletarian culture, because proletarian practice
(building a socialist economy under the dictatorship of the prolet-
ariat, the process of preparing a social revolution in the direction of organiza-
nization of the world socialist economy) and proletarian. me-
methods of organizing this practice (its scientific instrument, ideology and
scrap) and are the foundation on which: the building of the proletariat is built
skoy culture. These are two sides of the same development process.
of the ongoing social revolution, equally important, ‘cannot
exist one without the other, like material without a tool.
72 I 9th No. 3

The construction of so-called material culture cannot
correspond to the goals of socialism, if the ideological tool for
this is unsuitable.

Just as the process of socialist revolution itself is international, so
The task of building proletarian culture is also international, and
this is the same. difficult and huge.

This seems like the ABC of Marxism in the field of culture, but
our friends don’t want to understand this alphabet and say: the question is about pro-
letarian culture - “chatter”.

So, it turns out that the program of the Russian Communist Party and the Communist Party is “chatter.”
“Manifesto” and the Manifesto of the Third International, and much more,
because they outlined their tasks to calculate more or less
long period and covered the task as a whole, and not just
immediate practical tasks.

Now let us reduce to a number of provisions the proposal proposed by Comrade Yakovlev
“cultural” program: : .

1. It is impossible to ‘solve the question of the tasks of the proletariat in general or

bourgeoisie in general.

2. Russia is an open country:

a) in Russia 80°), illiterate.

6) peasant farming is based on a three-field system.

c) otechnically lagging behind, and the level of development of science in our country
very low.

d) we have bureaucracy and we don’t know how to work.

. e) our criminal police are no good,
f) lack of basic cleanliness, hygiene and desire
wash.

Therefore, it is necessary to overcome this cultural retardation by:
fight against lice, eradication of illiteracy, dissemination
tion of the “Poor”, it is necessary to increase material security
teachers and win them over to your side; etc.

Overcoming cultural backwardness is considered a struggle for bourgeois
zhuaz culture, whereas here it would be quite appropriate
prove that: I don’t know whether this is a struggle for the bourgeois or pro-
Tara culture - because cultural backwardness simply means
lack of necessary basic prerequisites—as for culture
bourgeois and socialist.

But the concept of culture is not at all covered by its elementary
prerequisites, etc. Yakovlev does not understand this. The need for sa-
my intense battle between Soviet power and cultural backwardness,
overcoming it is a self-evident condition for construction. cul:
tours, so understanding this truth is elementary and mandatory
for every party worker that in this area the dispute would be valid
No. 8 - CULTURAL ISSUES 73

really turned into empty chatter. Business is needed here
discussion and development of decisive practical measures to eliminate
dation of cultural backwardness.

But, after all, we must build a socialist economy, one
temporarily overcoming cultural retardation, which means we must
forge and tools for this construction appropriate to this task
scientific methods, master, critically revising, scientific
consequence of the bourgeoisie, `to develop class stability in the proletariat
in the struggle and the corresponding production ideology and monistic
skoe worldview.

In short, socialist construction must be
the ideology of the communist revolution in its most
fate of the all-scientific understanding of it, as striving for a global social-
lism. Socialist construction and communist ideology
of the revolution together constitute the content of the concept of proletarian
culture. The solution to this problem is not only limited to the creation
elementary prerequisites of culture, but precisely from this condition and
begins, and moreover, simultaneously with it. This is the need
the necessary and inevitable dialectic of the process of socialist construction
government ‹

Comrade Yakovlev says: “It is impossible to resolve the issue of tasks
the proletariat in general or the bourgeoisie in general,”

Stated this way, this position is simply incorrect. When
K. Marx and Engels wrote the Communist Manifesto, they said
they focused primarily on the tasks of the proletariat in general, on the class struggle
proletariat in general and concluded their Manifesto with the formulation of the first
the main task of the proletariat in general: “the proletarians of all countries,
unite!“

T International, at its founding, first and foremost
formulated the tasks of the proletariat, its goal and forms of struggle in general.

“Only on this basis could they be resolved, as particulars, although
of utmost importance, the specific tasks of the proletariat of individual
countries Or Comrade Yakovlev thinks that these general tasks in the field
proletarian culture have already been formulated, and on their basis it is possible
weave the fabric of private tasks? You are mistaken, comrade. Yakovlev: to the formula-
we have only just come to the essence of this problem, and our discussion
This is only the first step in matters of culture, after which we must
follow a broader statement of the problem - and not only here,
but also on an international scale.

The Congress of the Third International is just fighting the belching of the smaller
Shevism and reformism in the field of tasks of the proletariat in general, for
their clear formulation and strict obligation to fulfill them, -
it outlines the general principles of a program of action for international

#

ZR
74 r: for. ri.

of the proletariat and stubbornly fighting against considering
the salaries of the proletariat only within the framework of the characteristics of a particular country,
What did P International do so successfully?
Verily, you will remember ‘by pgadfly of all the above statements

Comrade Yakovlev humorous poem:

“Take Read, yes it’s gone

Lead us straight to the bridge, -

Well, with a bang!
Hurray, we made some noise,
“De reserves haven’t ripened”... c.

p.

BOURGEOIS AND PROLETARIAN METHODS OF ORGANIZING PRODUCTION
MANAGEMENT AND MANAGEMENT.

As a result, according to the first part of the reasoning discussed above,
the following conclusions can be drawn:

First. When our friends talk about us with sorrow in their hearts,
our cultural backwardness, their grief is truly worthy of sympathy,
and they themselves offer every consolation,

Well, for example, at least the following: after all, Russians are illiterate
workers 'and peasants, nevertheless, made a socialist revolution
and established Soviet power. In the throes of struggle, through the most severe
ontibok, for five years they have been building a workers’ and peasants’ state, something
done in this construction. They built the Edge Army and fought back
from the black armed reaction, preserved the nationalized
large-scale industry, created a network of workers' faculties, community universities,
party school and again closely, with all the energy of the talking-
new, we have approached the elimination of illiteracy, progress is being made on all fronts
study and learning, accumulation of “elementary cultural preconditions”
for the plazomer-organized construction of Soviet power.

The truth, of course, is that the cartload of cultural backwardness from the quagmire
dragged by a non-Western European proletarian trotter of a large machine
production, and the peasant sivka, and therefore the pace of movement of medical
lazy, but this sivka is controlled by the working class and directs it
on the right road.

But in this study there is tension among the broad working masses,
there is enthusiasm, there is a “goal setting” - organization and strengthening
its workers' and peasants' power, the construction of a socialist
obtseetva.

On the other hand, the broad masses of Western European pro-
tariat, not lousy, literate, possessing all the basic

“ |:
2 An. Io TA DOS RA, Re NI >. LINK her. t

№8 CULTURAL ISSUES 75

prerequisites of culture, while they are powerless, still separated, not yet
outlived among them not onlyo Scheidemannism, but also fascism. Prole-
The Tara trotter is still bridled by the bourgeoisie and feeds on its oats.

This leads to conclusion 2—an indisputable statement about the necessity
bridge of basic cultural prerequisites for moving forward
to socialism must be combined with another equally indisputable
position, namely: to move forward along the path to socialism
in the broad proletarian masses must be formed accordingly
current communist ideology, for them the creative
ical socialist goal of the revolution.

Western Europeans do not have such consciousness. of the proletariat as a whole, despite
on the presence of elementary cultural prerequisites,

Communist ideology and creativity in the process of revolution
evolution of socialist forms of life, simultaneously with the destruction
old, constitutes the real content of the concept of proletarian culture
tour; the creativity of the revolution is ultimately the creativity of the new
culture, both material and spiritual, in their conventional distinction
and in their inextricable connection.

“Cultural program” of our friends as we reviewed it
parts of the question of the cultural creativity of the revolution not only more than once
decides, but it doesn’t even occur to them to raise this question.

Let's move on to a detailed consideration of the following provisions
Comrade Yakovlev. This work, despite its tediousness, must be done
absolutely necessary not because Comrade Yakovlev’s provisions were
great scientific value, and therefore, we repeat, that his conclusions
clearly reflect the resultant party thought in this matter,
reveal a whole tangle of misunderstandings that have arisen in connection
with the problem of proletarian culture posed by life.

In a large feuilleton in No. 240 of Pravda, deceiving Comrade Pletnev,
Comrade Yakovlev formulates two of the three cardinal questions this way,
which he puts to Comrade Pletinev:

1) “In our truly backward” country, should we fight
for “bourgeois culture” (quotes from Comrade Yakovlev), for...,
“to work not according to our sloppy Soviet model, but at least
according to bourgeois European or American educationtime"... "to achieve
at least of that bourgeois culture, an example of which is provided by the work of the trust
American, German criminal police, average European
ministry"?

Already with this first question from Comrade Yakovlev, the reader is completely
stunned and begins to think about where the trap is hiding here,
what answer is Comrade Yakovlev waiting for in order to catch a heretic by the scruff of the neck,
defending proletarian culture?
76 OE No. 8

Well, it’s dangerous to joke with Comrade Lkovlev, he is more subtle than
walked. Is it a joke here?

The answer to this question is both complex and simple. It is simple, as simple as
Marx's method has been defined, on the basis of which only it is possible and
must answer, it is complex, just as Marxist dialectics is complex,
because to answer the “questions” of our opponents like “yes, yes”,
“even or no” means to slide into the same sickness of metaphysics in which
Comrade Yakovlev resides happily, stunning the reader with his
"questions". and

Simple answer: we need to fight against sloppiness, perversion
providing the most democratic, flexible and cheapest
form of organization of the dictatorship of the proletariat—the Soviet form. Bo-
rotieya in the framework of this form for a scientifically organized organization
labor in all areas of Soviet construction, giving the most
achievements with the least amount of labor.

In relation to this scientific organization of labor, apply only
those methods taken from bourgeois experience and science, but which are not contrary
speak of the Soviet organization of economy and state, in the expression
dictatorship of the proletariat.

Answer two:

If the first answer is correct (and it is the only correct one), then
consider the fight against sloppiness using the indicated methods as a fight
“for bourgeois culture” is a mistake, because this concept is completely
Sheyanvo is a holistic concept, just like proletarian culture. And that
and another culture naturally contain coinciding elements,
but the combination of them in this whole, called culture, Their type of connection,
target installation of the whole—prin:apially different.

It is clear that only the structure of the system as a whole, the nature of the connectionits constituent elements have each other. defining
meaning, and not separate, although coinciding, elements of two
different cultures. —

As for “whether it is necessary to achieve that bourgeois
culture“ (without quotation marks), an example of which is given by the work of the American
sky treaty, etc., then this question is worth dwelling on, because it
is very characteristic of the argumentation of our comrades.

What are the working methods of the imperialist American trust,
characteristic and specific to bourgeois culture?

First of all, it is a scientifically constructed squeezing system
sweat and surplus value from workers and employees.

_ Since employees and workers serve not out of fear, but out of conscience
capitalism, since the form of the capitalist system and state
gifts, its preservation and strengthening, improving one’s position
within the framework of these forms constitute their immediate and final goal—

E

oh

*

\

=
No. 8 CULTURAL ISSUES t

insofar as these workers and employees are still outside their class,
insofar as they live, think and work entirely within the framework of the old
bourgeois culture and accept all its methods.

Another part of the workers and employees are class conscious
enemies of the organizers and leaders of the trust, appropriators of profits
permanent cost.

These work under the prevailing system in the trust
squeezing out sweat, submitting to the cane discipline of the manager
hierarchy of leaders, under the threat of hunger and unemployment.

After all, in a capitalist society in relation to the worker
class is mercilessly dominated by the principle: whoever does not work for capital
talista - but he doesn’t eat.

Consequently, the trust operates without interruption and with maximum
efficiency, since one part of the composition
those influencing the organization of human elements are located ideologically
in captivity of bourgeois culture, is a principled anti-infector
capitalist system, and the other part is brought to obedience
prospects of unemployment and hunger and we are blown by the apparatus of the class
coercion represented by the trust and the bourgeois state.

All methods of organizationand, both human and logistical
ical, elements of the trust are dictated by the goals of capitalist
competition and capitalist accumulation, grow and develop
are developed on capitalist soil, adapted to capitalism
ical structure as a whole.

And only on capitalist soil, through capitalism
ical methods of organization, this trust can achieve useful
commercial result.

Its structure, incentives and methods of organization are relative
(depend) on the capitalist social environment.

It is obvious that the American trust system is internally anti-
eloquent, just as the system of capitalism as a whole is internally contradictory.

Competition, crises, periodic disturbances of the rebellious
parts of human elements, in addition, dictate the use of methods
insurance against these phenomena “disturbing” the system give rise to new
“insurance costs” are imposed by additional organizations
tion methods, to the detriment of the harmony and harmony of the system
in general.

Comrade Yakovlev is clearly blinded by the commercial results of the American
ricane trusts, deanery and order of bourgeois sovereigns.

At the same time, he forgot a small, trifling love, &
precisely the social environment in which these fruits of the bourgeois are grown
zhuaz culture, all the methods of its construction, and outside of which it
the fruits rot without receiving nutritious juices.
78 R O -R No. 8

In a different social environment he wants to get the same result
methods characteristic of a capitalist environment.

Kautsky, Hilferding and other “independent” opportunists
precisely because they understood that the fruits of bourgeois culture in
other environment will begin to rot - they fought against the dictatorship of the proletariat
and nationalization of production.

They said: because the proletariat has not yet developed the corresponding
methods of organizing production and
administration and has not yet developed valid new networks
mules to work, then do not destroy the productive forces yet, do not
having the opportunity to recreate them again, and... put aside the social
revolution like thatit's a hundred. until the proletariat “matured” as a class,
special to the management of both the state and production.

We did the opposite. We said: when the proletariat establishes
establishes his dictatorship, then he uses all those bourgeois methods
organizations that will correspond to the ‘socialist goal.
During the period of its dictatorship the working class will develop its proletarian
methods of organization and will apply those that have already been formed
were present in his working practice even in the depths of the capitalist system.
During the process of socialist construction, during the period of dictatorship
of the proletariat, it “matures” as a class capable of governing.

Comrade Lenin wrote about proletarian methods of control and management
in almost all of his brochures shortly before the October Revolution
and throughout the five years of Soviet power. Therefore
we made a revolution the Bolshevik way. Now our friends
invite us to return five. They think that to achieve
maximum useful results in the work of our government
trusts and the state apparatus can and should be criticized
accept all methods nurtured on specific capitalism
chesical basis that in this area it is necessary to fight for the bourgeois
culture without quotes.

This would mean exposing our trusts to the danger of becoming
into purely capitalist ones, based on the complete discretion of the owner,
and recommended methods would be unsuitable, because
would be in contradiction with the proletarian essence of economic
and the state system and the dictatorship of the proletariat.

We affirm the opposite position. We. we say that although
the trust and the workers' and peasants' state have a significant
parts from matching logistical and human elements,
compared to institutions of the bourgeois formation, but the combination
these elements, the goals and objectives of the entire system are fundamentally different.

First of all, a different distribution of classes under the dominance of the proletarian
Tariat: proletariat at the top, politically powerless bourgeoisie

s a VA A

r

RIA. <"
No. 8 GPDEW OF CULTURE 79

'

below, the replacement of the bourgeoisie in the management of technical intelligence
the gentry and the working class. The main goals of the socialist plan
production are fundamentally different, subordination to technical in-
intelligentsia ideology and the goals of the working class, etc., etc. etc., etc.

These truths have been known for a long time and many times beautifully. explained
Comrade Bukharin in his works, articles and reports - therefore more
There is no need to dwell on these issues in detail here.

What is the conclusion from all of the above?

And the conclusion is that if you follow the advice of our comrades—
fight in this area for bourgeois culture, then you will come
to the following results: either... no result with the old methods
ladies, as inappropriate for the social environment, you will not achieve,
or it will be necessary to move from these methods sequentially
to the restoration of the capitalist essence of the objects of the organization
tional effect according to the specified recipe.

No wonder Comrade Lenin devoted two large articles to the question of
organization of the state apparatus and in general about the scientific organization
ization of labor and management in the Soviet state, qualifying
our state apparatus seems to have been eaten through by the worst.
kind of bureaucracy, like the most typical old of our old
apparatus. Hence the attempt to find new methods characteristic of
correlative to workers' and peasants' management; from here - project
control of Ts.K.K. and R.K.I., formulation, problems in the whole about the organiza-
ization of labor and management.

What a struggle for bourgeois culture this is!

This is a statement of the task at full scale, in the new conditions of social
environment, the search for new methods of organization in relation to the goals
socialism, a clear recognition of the futility and danger
application of methods designed by their very essence to
capitalist goal setting and to maintain the ‘influence
hierarchy of bourgeois organizers of production.

By the way, for the information of our comrades.—In articles about Work-
crine Vladimir Ilyich, recommending skepticism “in relation to
'to those tothen too much 'and easily rants, for example, about
“proletarian culture,” writes: “for us to begin with, it is enough to
“decent bourgeois culture,” etc. This is the place of the indicated article
Comrade Lenin our comrades will not hesitate to use against us
in a dispute, They will deliberately not notice that Comrade Lenin, as is clear from
the quote below, to the problem of culture and in particular about
Letarian is extremely attentive. As for
“too much and easy chatter and ranting” for this

topic (and there are such, it’s no secret), then let them endure
merit.
—^

„===

80 tor No. 8

In relation to the assimilation of real bourgeois culture,
From the content of Comrade Lenin’s entire article it follows that he is following
implies the assimilation of its partial, its individual aspects and methods,
suitable for building a workers' and peasants' state and not
contradictory to its essence.

That our statement is correct is clear from the following passage
the same article: “to update our state apparatus we must first—
to study, secondly - to study and thirdly - to study"....... "so that science
really entered flesh and blood, turning into a composite
an element of everyday life, in a completely and real way. In a word - it is necessary
make demands that are different from those made by the bourgeoisie of 3. Europe,
and those that are worthy and decent to present to the country that puts its
the task of developing into a socialist country.”

In his report on industry, Comrade Trotsky, by the way, says
says the following: “The first and most elementary task is the assignment,
which was given to NEP by our party: to push up production
active forces of our country. The second problem that we solve
shawls for the first time, these are rising or about to rise
direct productive forces as far as possible into the direction of the worker
states, i.e. on the socialist path. This is absolutely, comrades,
not the same question“... (Especially for the information of our friends.—P. 3)...
“The very fact that the market contributes to raising productive
fork is not, of course, the last one ora decisive task for us. Where
does our work begin? Where we are, these rising spruce trees produce
“We are directing our forces through the channel of socialist construction.”
(underlined by me—P. 3.). That is, along the path of proletarian culture,
and not bourgeois, we will add. :

This point of view is emphasized even more clearly in the resolution
XI Congress on the report of Comrade Dzerzhinsky on the state apparatus. It says
on the issue of studying musical production abroad, the following:

“Systematization and summation of the achievements of modern science
in relation to the conditions of the apparatus, the Council of power and the consumer
the needs and needs of the workers' and peasants' state; unlike
tasks of science adapted to the needs of bourgeois-vapitalistic
states—this is the special goal that the reorganization should pursue
“based RCT” (emphasis added—P. 3.).

Sh.
PROLETARIAT AND PEASANTRY.

The second question is closely related to the question of the connection with the peasant
economics, with the question of the hegemony of the proletariat over the peasantry
during the period of socialist revolution and dictatorship of the proletariat.
th

No. 3 CULTURAL ISSUES 81

The train of thought of our comrades on this issue is as follows. They
they ask: “In our truly “illiterate” country, is it included or not?
in the task of the struggle for bourgeois culture - to reduce illiteracy,
achieve the distribution of Pravda and Izvestia in at least two
millions of copies, instead of the 250,000 now distributed,
teach the peasant the elementary techniques of cultural management
niya, ‘to achieve the destruction of three-fields, the spread of early fallow,
selection of dry-resistant crops, replacement of the latter with prayers for
rain?“

Regarding the first part of the question, we gave the answer in the first reply.
cutting the article, when we analyzed the cultural “program”, set out
Nouyu T. Yakovlev.

But here is what is surprising and typical of confusion in
on this question from Comrade Yakovlev, that he disseminated Pravda and Iz-
Vestiya" considers the spread of bourgeois culture. One of two:
or the question is about the shortcomings of newspaper distribution techniques, then
this question is aboutfive, it has no problem with the problem of proletarian culture
nothing in common, or the question is about the spread of communist
Christian ideas “Pravda” and “Izvestia” - then. Comrade Yakovlev, what
This is the spread of bourgeois culture!

You can't play with concepts like that. Scientific assimilation is one thing
established facts, laws, techniques suitable for
building a new culture, a new social organization on their
basis, just as socialism grows on the basis of elements
prepared by the development of capitalism, destroying it at the same time
as a system; the struggle for bourgeois culture in its entirety is another matter.
nom unity.

You cannot take bricks from a building that is being destroyed to build a new one.
new, completely different architectural style and different practical
goals, to consider these bricks as bourgeois culture. Entering as a composition-
new element into the construction of a new building, since they turned out to be
suitable for this construction, the elements of the old lose their speci-
digital entity. Ovi are part of a different system, in a different
type of connection and in other combinations, serve as material for a different purpose.

What Kiriychi and whole parts from the old bourgeois culture
suitable for building a new proletarian culture—in this second
swarm of the main problems of proletarian culture as a whole,

Indeed, this is the ABC of dialectics and Marxism, but, unfortunately, it is
we have to remind our friends repeatedly.

The second part of the question takes us into the area of the agrarian “program”,
in the field of peasant economy and development of productive forces
peasant farming.

6
82 rya no. 858

Again, a poisonous question that is expected to be answered by
like “yes-dah”, “no-no” - and again here we have to face
dialectics of social revolution, so unpleasant for our friends,
tion, in general, and Russian, in particular.

We must answer whether it is necessary to fight for the development of production.
tive forces of the peasant economy and whether this struggle is a struggle
fight for proletarian culture,

You'd have to be crazy to answer negatively to the question.
ros’in such a formulation of it.

It's the same as answering negative questions
Is the existence of factories necessary for the implementation of socialism?
factories, trusts, concentration of production, global economic
connections, and in the past - the initial accumulation of capital, the era
merchant capitalism, etc., etc.,

But an absolutely equally crazy answer would be that
to build a socialist economy it is necessary to restore
to create productive forces so that on the basis of their development the
capitalism.

In what ways should the peasant economy be restored?
Miku? If—according to the laws and commandments of bourgeois culture: support
live the fist, infringe on the poor, give space to private capitalist
initiative, give space to the development of capitalist relations in
village, help the buyer, merchant, etc., then it will be a struggle
for genuine bourgeois culture and also, undoubtedly, on the basis
growth of the productive forces of the village,

Of course, our comrades don’t want this, they just want their
questions to shame the defenders of proletarian culture, while they themselves
They're still in trouble. They lack an analysis of class relations
and relations in the village, and therefore in the formulation of this question there is promise
the matter is just as unsuccessful both in essence and in form as in the post-
new issue about the work of the trust.

It is necessary to restore the productive forces of the village,
but—in the direction of promoting the growth and strengthening of the socialist
economy as a whole, and therefore in the direction of increasing
this basis is not the old, bourgeois capitalist culture, but the new
howl, socialist, proletarian.

No one ever says that there are generic products
active forces, feudal, bourgeois, etc., and the concept of production
we use active forces in Marx’s definition.

We say: the productive forces of society, feudal,
capitalist ‘etc.,’ indicating that the economic
structure, method of production, i.e. forms in which production
bodily forces are embodied, canbe both feudal and bourgeois
№8 CULTURAL ISSUES 83

proletarians, and proletarians in their qualitative difference, but, at the same time,
hardness of their constituent elements, only quantitatively distinguish
separated from each other.

We are definitely for proletarian methods: pinching the fist,
support the poor, unite the middle, support cooperation, organize
handicraftsmen, collective farming, etc., are the preconditions for pro-
letarian culture, not bourgeois, and again in exactly the same way
based on the growth of the productive forces of the village.

Our revolution has an inseparably dual character: it
is the last bourgeois and, at the same time and at the same time, the first,
socialist, Our economic existence consists of coexistence
various economic forms (remnants of natural patriarchal
economy, small commodity production, private capitalism, state
gift capitalism, socialist forms of economy). This
economic existence, enclosed in the shell of the Soviet state-
ties, correspond to various class groupings, corresponding
general ideological superstructures and “ways of representation”,

_ All this together constitutes what we call the culture of the country.

The prerequisites for the maturation of proletarian culture (culture of co-
cialist society) is the economic predominance of the ss-
cialist forms of production and state capitalism
over naturally patriarchal, petty-bourgeois barter and
private capitalist.

Our revolution, as the last bourgeois revolution, liquidating
economic-patriarchal forms and the corresponding social
relations, liquidates and must liquidate first of all
due to cult, new backwardness (illiteracy, patriarchal forms
management and work, etc.) and thus create an elementary
new prerequisites for both bourgeois and proletarian culture.

But this liquidation of feudal-patriarchal relations is natural
ral economy, (and their essence in peasant life was preserved,
despite the liquidation of the landowners), we cannott directly at-
lead to socialist forms and presupposes more or less
long period of coexistence of bourgeois-capitalist
forms of economy with systematically: regulated (state-capital
listic and socialist).

Between these and other forms the process of struggle is inevitable:
between the tendency towards collectivization, cooperation of the petty bourgeoisie
economy, a tendency towards a link with the nationalized pro-
mentality and the opposite tendency to grow into
medium and large capitalist farms.

This material base gives rise to a struggle of trends in the field
supertroika (ideological front). The task, based on the elimination of

6*

Ah!
71.
8+ R-R No. 8

cultural-patriarchal existence and the corresponding cultural
totality, to build forms of socialist existence with corresponding
it with ideological superstructures, as opposed to the existing
under conditions of the opposite tendency to create forms of bourgeois-
economic economy, bourgeois culture—9this is the task of our first
socialist 'revolution, existing and being solved at the same time
with the first, first a cadre of the most conscious proletarians, and then
and the whole class as a whole.

Organize and strengthen the forms of socialist planning
production in industry, to bind them, to subordinate the peasants to them,
Russian economy - this is the essence of the question of the bond. This is an immeasurable task.
large scale, of a universal scientific nature, and long-lasting.
It is clear that by the methods of bourgeois culture this task, as stated above,
according to the given formulation, it cannot be resolved. This is the answer, according to the court.
the issue of a bond with the peasantry.

Supporters of the above point of view, in particular com-
Risha Pletnev is also credited with an organic misunderstanding of class
relations in our country.

According to Comrade Yakovlev, the main task of the NEP boils down to
to restore the bond between the proletariat and the peasantry (with which
peasantry, Comrade Yakovlev? Where are your classrooms in the village? Not
Is there a link with the peasant economy?)

“I see, kais of great importance from this point of view
cultural work of the proletariat (Soviet power) in the countryside." "Cre-
The farmer, as an owner, is drawn to capital. And depending on whether we can
we will organize our work so that more and more masses of peasants
came over to our side, were convinced of the practical, real,
tangible benefits of the socialist economy depends on the development and
strengthening of Soviet Russia. Our task is to ensure that we
the only people who weren’t here were the loners that Pletnev writes about,
so that the working class moves forward towards culture together with the peasants
stvom".

Truly - “with the same goodness, let us brow.”

The importance of cultural work in the village is undeniable; necessary
the opportunity for the working class to move towards culture together with the peasants
the quality is undeniable.

Only now... “just one time in this very place.” To which
the proletariat must move towards culture together with the peasantry,
in what direction (other than the elimination of illiteracy) should the
cultural work in the village? Where does class analysis go?
8 No. WE CULTURAL ISSUES

culture, the struggle of trends in this area, the specific nature
tasks of the proletariat in the field of cultural construction?

In matters of culture, our friends, in the person of Comrade Yakovlev, stand on
old-populist non-class point of view. For them there is
culture in general, cultural tasks in general, some kind of “national
culture,” as Comrade Yakovlev put it, objecting to Comrade. To Bukharin on his
report at the Proletkult Club.

Meanwhile, depending on how clear the revolutionary
The proletariat is aware of the difference between the real structure
society, in the cellular coherence of its constituent bases and substructures,
united by the concept of “bourgeois culture”, and public
structure united by the concept of “proletarian culture” in its
holistic unity; since clearly he will critically evaluate the suitability
the usefulness of certain methods of bourgeois culture for construction
socialist society, will find ways to simplify them, will make
them suitable for the purposes of socialism, sincehe produces
new methods for building a proletarian economy and state, -
to that extent, and only to that extent, does he remain the hegemon of the revolution.

By eliminating the petty-bourgeois element, the working class only
under such conditions will be able to lead the poorest and middle peasants
the peasantry to raise the productive forces by methods and methods,
promoting the formation of socialist construction and
proletarian culture as a whole.

Otherwise, the stubborn facts of an economy organizing itself
into bourgeois forms of economy, will undermine and eat up social
the literary essence of our revolution.

The need for a link with the peasant economy, inclusion
small and minute peasantry to the creativity of socialist
revolution—not only does not change the essence of the proletarian problem
culture, but, on the contrary, further emphasizes its class
essence.

The peasantry is creatively weak, both organizationally and
ideologically, a link in the bloc of the proletariat and peasants, self-
standing active creator of socialist existence and proletarian
There can be no such culture. To the extent of activity, tension
energy and scientific precision of proletarian methods of organizing social
cialistic existence among the advanced leading vanguard of prole-
tariat, and then the class as a whole—the peasantry will rise
above the petty-bourgeois outlook, to catch up in your practice
and ideology to the realization of the tasks of socialist construction.

``Only under the ideological hegemony of the proletariat—determined
its new layers can come out of the circle of practice and concepts.

45
86 a E S" No. 8

hillbillies and rise to an understanding of the global significance of the essence
socialism, and for a long time they can only be fellow travelers
proletariat. Find the right methods to restore the peasant
economy in a direction that meets the goals of socialism—in this
is the solution to the issue of a link with the peasant economy.

In this sense, in relation to the peasantry, it is possible and should
understand the statement of Comrade Pletnev (article in Pravda), whichit's different
For this reason, our opponents dispute that the task of building
the development of proletarian culture can only be resolved by the forces
the proletariat itself.
SCIENCE

Sizov.

PROLETARIAT AND SCIENCE,

In relation to the question of the proletariat’s assimilation of scientific
values of bourgeois culture, some opponents of class
approach to science due to the metaphysical nature of their “method of pre-.
poisoning,” reveal a complete lack of understanding of the very essence of the issue.
They attribute extreme vandalism to the supporters of the class approach,
the desire to throw overboard the scientific heritage of the bourgeois world,
as completely unfit for use by the working class.

The slogan “socialization of science”, or
“proletarianization of science,” which was put forward by Proletkult as
a general formula indicating to the working class the path along which
Roma must, through collective efforts, complete Marx’s work:
“everything that was created by human thought - to process, to
subject to critical analysis, check on the workers' movement" and
based on the experience of socialist construction, to make it a suitable tool
construction of world socialism, find new methods and “make
those conclusions in the direction of the specified goal, of which limited drill-
people bound by bourgeois frameworks or bound by bourgeois prejudices
they couldn’t do it.”

Without going into assessing whether the terms are successful or not: “socialization”,
“proletarianization”, which, in the end, has no significant meaning
niya, let's focus on the following:

The Vlass-bourgeois character of science is expressed in the fact that it
served and serve in capitalist countries as a tool for organizing
bourgeois society, an instrument of the bourgeoisie’s domination over the class
themselves by labor, a tool for organizing production and production
nal process in its capitalist-antagonistic form.

It is bourgeois in origin, for the facts of experience are organized
into the scientific system during the period of development of capitalism, in connection with the
due to the growth of productive forces, the complication of social relations
sheny, like a superstructure, fasteningwhich contains the entire foundation of the bourgeois
society; bourgeois in point of view, methods of grouping and unification
facts (“method of presentation”), target setting, sub-
selection of factual material and, finally, presentation.

The separation of science from its real basis - social labor
(fetishism of absolute truth, fetishism of the self-sufficient, abstract

45
90 SR 5 No. 8

cognition), its fragmentation and workshop specialization correspond
the existence of an anarchic individualistic economy, without changing
revealing its essence even in the imperialist stage. his
development.

The science of the bourgeois world as a whole was and is ideological
instrument for building bourgeois culture, it is correlated with practical
such as the bourgeois-capitalist system.

Science, as a system, must become a tool for constructing a path
Tara culture, an ideological weapon in the struggle of the working class and
building socialism,

This is the essence of the “talk” about the socialization of science.

If for our opponents all of the above is “intelligence”
Gentek conversations that the proletariat will never understand,” then
the genuine working class truth of our statement, unfortunately,
feels very painful on his back in his practical home
government work and government management work.

The scientific instrument of the bourgeois world turns out to be significantly

degree unsuitable for his socialist practice.

In general, the point of view we defend can be summarized
to the following provisions;

The economic basis and the corresponding system of supertriples,
or the predominant method of production and its corresponding “epo-
personal presentation" - constitute the cultural characteristics of the era
(feudal, bourgeois, proletarian). As a basis; and superstructures,
have a certain system of communication, combination, relationship
their constituent things, people (classes) and ideas, and—this type of connection,
the method of combining these elements constitutes the essence and difference
a characteristic feature of various cultures. Winding superstructure (social
political and ideologicali) grows out of production 01-
relations and is the instrument through which society re-
regulates, directs, coordinates the production process, production
water relations and strengthens the foundation of social existence
in general.

The method of presentation must correspond to the method of production
social consciousness, social consciousness and social existence. Contents of thought
concepts, like the method of presentation, are imposed by the practice of life, its
spontaneous course of development under capitalism,

In bourgeois society, the entire series of superstructures serves the purpose of strengthening
capture of the strength and organization of the ruling classes, support,
strengthening and development of the capitalist mode of production,
reproduction of capitalist attitudes - therefore, not a single type
superstructures, neither in form nor in content, cannot but bear
class character and not be subordinate to the goals and objectives of the bourgeoisie

Oh Yuma

r

:
b

No. 8 E U. AE A 91

of life. The dominant mode of representation therefore cannot
to be anything other than class-bourgeois.

The problem of proletarian culture is, therefore, a problem
organization of forms of socialist existence, socialist production
water supply relations, together with a chain of flows corresponding to this task
lytical and ideological superstructures.

These are two sides of the same process of social revolution.
tion and socialist construction. Both have international
native character, therefore the problem of proletarian culture is also
international

Varying degrees of growth of the socialist foundations of life and their
identification correspond to different forms and degrees of development of formal-
its superstructures, the development of the corresponding system of connections—according to
the entire line of socialist existence.

But already from the moment the formation and organization of the main
elements of the future socialist society and their growth, on-
elements of the proletarian movement begin to emerge concretely and take shape
culture in various areas of social process. In transition-
ny period, especially. parallel to the growth of socialist forms of ho-
zyistva, from the very beginning, “plastic” socio-political
ical forms of the dictatorship of the proletariat, and along with them, as a weapon
socialist construction, it is necessary—and the entire chain of ideological
ical supertriples.

The problem of proletarian culture arises in the process of subsequent
this stage of the class struggle of the proletariat, simultaneously with the task
seizure of power and mastery of production in order to organize the world
new planned socialist economy and use
for this purpose, the scientific values and organizational experience of the bourgeoisie
new world.

The immeasurable complexity of the task, its class acuteness - make
scientific values of the bourgeois world are only partially suitable for
solutions to this problem. The need to achieve this goal collectively
through the efforts of the class, under the leadership of its vanguard—the party, e
maximum voltage, and at the same time with maximum economy
mission of labor effort - definitely poses a challenge to the working class
the task of critically revising science, simplifying its methods of presentation
zheniya, reducing its fragmentation to the possible unity of scientific laws-
new methods, finding new methods and new generalizing
points of view in relation to the assigned tasks.

Science, as a tool for building socialism, must be adapted
dedicated to the tasks of socialist struggle and construction.

Not a single branch of science, up to the exact sciences, in modern
in its state does not meet this goal and, in its present form, it

46
92 ROV. № №вВ

use requires for assimilation unbearable, unproductive
expenditure of excess energy, unacceptable in the face of the most complex challenges
giving to the organization of the socialist existence of mankind.

Along with the elimination of illiteracy and the popularization of scientific
scientific and practical truths for the broad masses, the vanguard of pro-
Tariat is obligated, in connection with the grandiose historical task of the Claes,
pose and solve the problem of proletarian culture, first of all
by adapting to this task the scientific values of the bourgeois
peace, through their critical revision,creation of new me-
tods and content. With this revision, the nature of the connection between scientific
elements, a method of provision that meets the objectives of the bourgeois
arrangements - must be replaced by such a connection and in such a way
proposals that would meet the tasks of the proletariat.

This is the general point of view on the class character of science.

How do opponents of this point of view look at this issue?
In the person of, for example, Comrade. Yakovlev—they argue here from practice
tics, and, I must admit, at first glance quite convincing.
In order not to somehow distort the thoughts of our opponents in this
issue of extreme importance, we present genuine and quite
detailed extracts.

Objecting to Comrade Bukharin’s report, Comrade Yakovlev says the following:

“I drew a sharp line between the exact and social sciences.”
nym. Exact sciences, first of all natural science, they are bourgeois,
©if one can say so in a slightly different way than bourgeois politics
economic economics" Political economy has become a direct
handmaiden of the bourgeoisie, just like philosophy. As for the natural
knowledge, then Comrade Lenin’s idea remains basically true that’bur-
zhuaz scientists, naturalists, were materialists
depending on your consciousness."

Comrade Yakovlev cites a number of names who believe in a material God.
natural scientists, such as physicists and chemists Thomson, Rute-
Ford, Soddy, zoologist Lancaster.

It's a pity that he doesn't mention the atheist materialists - well,
at least Haeckel, and communist materialists, like the late K. A. Ti-
Miryazev, - a contrast between these two qualitatively different types
materialists would be made by the internal inconsistency of what they are defending
the situation is more obvious.

Next:

“We preach the assimilation of bourgeois sciences, the assimilation of exact
knowledge, a sharp division between the exact and social sciences
in such conditions, when the working class is in power, when the highest
schools are filled with worker-peasant youth, in conditions

x
in"

a

a & o iya.

to

I am 35 ao. K

}
o

m > V a

G.

cr
No. 8 Noah U V.A 93

in which the slogan usvThe concept of bourgeois sciences turns into a slogan
mass creation of proletarian culture."

Latest statement:

“The slogan of assimilation of bourgeois culture in the field of exact sciences,
formed in the context of our working youth in school—learn
mathematics, physics, chemistry, become a real engineer who can
build in conditions where power is in the hands of the working class;
when the question of world socialist revolution is in order
day, this slogan becomes the slogan that opens the gates to socialism.”

Let's boil it all down to a few points:

1. There is a sharp line between natural science (exact
sciences) and social. The first bourgeois are different.

2. Because bourgeois natural scientists are
materialists, regardless of their consciousness and their faith
into god.

3. Mastering the bourgeois exact sciences, studying mathematics,
physics, chemistry, technology, combined with dedication to commu-
nism, the gates to socialism can be opened.

From the above reasoning, two gratifying conclusions can be drawn:
conclusion for us: firstly, our comrades admit here that the question
there is an important question about proletarian culture, and not empty chatter;
secondly, they recognize the class character of the exact sciences, but in a different way,
than public ones.

Consequently, we have a dispute on the issue of social sciences
no. As for the “bourgeois nature of natural science in a different way,” then
our comrades do not explain what the essence of this “bourgeoisism” is
to another,” and without this there is no way to determine the correct relationship
to the perception of bourgeois exact science by the proletariat.

References to the existence of major scientists who believe in God,
materialistically developing issues related to their field,
fruitfulness for the proletariat of the results of work that no one
denies the question of the nature and degree of bourgeoisness of the exact sciences
not solved. And the very proof of this kind does not stand up
critics. After all, it is quite clear that Rutheford, and Soddy, and others
equally prominent scientists who have as the object of their research
atom, i.e. albeit infinitesimal, but still an element of matter, be
they are at least three times idealists, forced to operate with concepts,
related to the subject of their study, i.e. matter. Materialists
it doesn't make them in any way.

The proletariat seeks in science support for an integral materiality
cultural understanding of the world, for their practical activities and, of course,
It goes without saying that facts and private laws. discovered by Rutheford,

4?
„No. 8 g ©. >: V. No. 8

Soddy and others, as scientifically proven, should be included as components
elements into this system.

But to consciously contribute to the formation of this materiality
Neither Soddy nor Rutheford will have a scientific scientific system. On the contrary,
since they will have to come out of the study area
private facts and establishment of private laws, move on to general.
a beautiful “picture of the world”, as it is drawn on the basis of an accurate natural
knowledge, you can be sure that all their generalizing conclusions,
according to the religious essence and their worldview, they will drag
the proletariat to the Lord God and to idealistic philosophy. You can't
at the same time to use the weapon of destruction of religion, mathematics
realism, and a weapon for preserving and strengthening religion - faith in the creator,
creator of the world. “Unconscious” materialism of bourgeois scientists,
thus turning it into conscious and most harmful idealism
and metaphysics, as soon as they are limited from particular facts and laws
in the given area of their research, they move on to assessing the connection between phenomena,
to the general laws of the broader field of the same exact sciences, where they
inevitably you have to be guided by your common philosophical world-
contemplation,

To assess the bourgeois nature of natural science, we must take it separately.
its representatives, even outstanding ones, and not establishing
or the discovery of individual, even the largest, facts and private
laws, and the system of science as a whole.

Analyzing the class character of science, we deliberately refrain
complained about the division of science into exact and social, since such
division, since science does not really make it explicit
servant of the bourgeoisie, i.e. Notdenies itself, even like science
bourgeois - such a division stands up to criticism. All sciences
study different aspects of a single process of nature (and generally speaking
nature) and use to varying degrees the so-called natural
scientific method, and only insofar as they are sciences, and not
collecting unrelated facts and observations.

Towards an assessment of the class character of science, without dividing it into exact
and social, the general position of Marx is quite applicable: “The same
people who build social relationships according to their
the method of material production, also produces the principles
ideas - categories corresponding to their social relations“!),

“What does the history of ideas show, if not that the spiritual pro-
production changes along with the material. Dominant ideas
any time there were always only the ideas of the ruling class.

1) K. Marco. “The Poverty of Philosophy,” ch. 2, second remark.

Zem

a o k oaa z e
No. 8 KZH" V 26 95

Speaking about ideas that revolutionize society, these statements
All they know is that within the old society elements formed
ments of the new, which goes hand in hand with the decomposition of the old conditions of existence
old ideas are also decomposing."

In this general characteristic, Marx speaks of the ideas of the masters
existing classes, about the dominant “way of representation”, not
making a distinction between ideas related to natural science and
social ideas,

However, the conventional distinction between them is practically legal,
since indeed certain groups of sciences have turned into
a direct servant of the bourgeoisie.

When the proletariat uses the scientific heritage of the bourgeoisie,
undoubtedly, entire groups connected into a system and united
general laws of phenomena and facts of various scientific disciplines
will be entirely included in the system of the proletarian scientific worldview.

The more indirectly a particular branch of knowledge is connected with the
resources of the ruling classes, the less it will require critical
sky revision and processing by the proletariat.

Let us take, for example, the third “indisputable” position of our pre-
students - about the need to master mathematics, physics, chemistry,
astronomy, i.e. groups of the most exact sciences, and therefore the most distant
from becoming a “direct servant of the interests of the dominant
classes."

What is the class character of this group of scientific
disciplines and what path of their processing is already outlined? Let's apply
to them our general point of view, stated at the beginning of this chapter.

The main characteristic fits this whole group quite well:
bourgeois science as an instrument of practice of bourgeois organizers
production and management, and not tools of a multimillion-dollar team
the working class, consciously and scientifically creating new forms of life.
Moreover, these sciences are transferred to the category of “pure”, as opposed to
practical-technical, cut off from their technical base, abandoned
are oriented by their abstraction so that they can be successfully absorbed
“to its depths”, due to a deliberately abstract construction,
only a caste of priests, for whose maintenance the bourgeoisie does not spare
costs They are most characteristic of the vice of bourgeois science—fetism.
schism of absolute truth and abstract knowledge. This is their bourgeois
ny “610e0b representations”, the type of connection between phenomena and facts in their
scientific generalization.

All these sciences historically arose as a result of generalization
accumulated labor collective experience from the most “dirty”

1) K. Marx and F. Eagels. "Communist Manifesto"

ya
96 UZH No. 8

everyday reality, as an instrument of its practice. This historicism
science, reducing its roots to the production process of mastery
materials and forces of nature through the collective efforts of humans
There is no quality in the presentation of these sciences.

Living concrete presentation of scientific laws as generalizations
human practice, as expressed in scientific provisions of labor-
great experience and ways to master the forces of nature, replaced by priestly
presentation of abstract truths, purely laboratory experiments,
presentation of facts in themselves, regardless of their significance in practicalactivities.

A picture of the world based on the greatest generalizations of these
sciences, is definitely both individualistic and idealistic
character, Theory of relativity, electron theory—powerful weapons
diy in the hands of the proletariat for the production of monistic material
stical worldview, in the hands of bourgeois scientists serve,
together with neo-Kantianism, slippery provisions of the theory of knowledge
Mach and Avenarius, the basis for creating an idealistic picture
world process, making the judge of this picture of the individual na-
observer, and individual epiphany, creating the laws of the universe,
instead of applying the principles of the proletariat: “only collective
through active practice a person proves the power, truth, this-sided
ity of one’s evil”, mastering it through long-term collective
experience through knowledge of the laws of nature.

The workshop isolation of even these areas of significance from each other,
when such close sciences as chemistry and physics find it difficult to find
generalizing formulas and speak about the same thing in different languages
com; when this generalizing process just begins to take hold
organic chemistry—is largely inherent in this group
sciences and serves as a great obstacle to the mastery of them by workers
class.

From all of the above, the class character is quite clear
these sciences, which so far the proletariat has to assimilate in
the way they are presented by bourgeois scientists. But out of trouble
still, there is no need to do virtue!

Our comrades ignore the above considerations.
Inviting the proletariat to assimilate this group of scientific disciplines in
in the form in which it formed into a system in the heads of the bourgeois
Scientists, they consider even the production itself to be harmful arrogance
the question of critical revision, of the “socialization” of this group
Sci. The Okies agree with the bourgeois scientists and admit that
only legal, but also inevitable, you can’t get past it, a fact,
that: for example, mathematical symbols are the essence of pure, non-empirical
ical character, which are even impossible specifically empirically
No. 89 hours DE t 97

imagine; that these symbols, supposedly not corresponding to any real
objects and not expressing any real relations of action
Naturally, it is in this mystical shell, and not in the hidden
their reality, serve as an instrument of labor ‘and knowledge; that's the point,
line, area in mathematics serve as research tools precisely
because they either have no reality (period) or domain
give fewer measurements than in reality (area
without thickness); it. p,

The mysticism and magic of symbols in mathematical
imaginary quantities, which, despite their “imaginary” nature, give
tangible results in practical activities. Verily,
large remnants are needed in the bourgeois way of representing faith in
magic, into verbal spells that create living concrete action
commitment to “seriously and for a long time” take legality and non-
necessity for the proletariat to assimilate this symbolism, without
to understand its real meaning, to find its roots in labor practice
and simplify its use,

From the system of methods for quantitative accounting of labor energy
society, materials and natural forces by which humanity would
updated, “pure” mathematics turns into combinatorial exercises
of... otherworldly symbols.

When mastering it, the proletariat has to overcome this
harmful ingrained metaphysics, so that with the greatest pre-
in five steps to return mathematics to the sinful earth. You can be
confident that by simplifying the symbolism, reducing it to the expression
real relations—the proletariat will be able to simplify the presentation
mathematical laws, separate empty logistics from real
the essence of science as a tool of quantitative accounting,

Having said that, there is no need to dwell in detail on
tasks of “socialization” in the field of physical and chemical sciences. And here
there is an urgent need to replace the bourgeois mode of production of ideas,
bourgeois method of pre-presentation - proletarian. 'Generic connection
these disciplines with a very technical base, eliminating the same shortcomings
stats that are characteristic of matheme, the type of connection between the elements of these
sciences based on dialectical materialism and energy application
decorum, a living connection between the laboratory experiment and the tasks and
practice of the production process, the reduction of this group of di-
disciplines based on the unity of the technical process to the possible
unity of methods and laws, specification and historicism of presentation
etc.. - this outlines the path for the “socialization” of a group of sciences
physico-chemical.

After such critical study, mastery of these disciplines
will indeed open the gates to socialism differently than now,

7

49
98 Eev No. 8

when these gates are opened by heroic efforts to overcome
class character of these sciences and despite it: through a long
grinding scientific knowledge at the millstone of proletarian practice, by
overcoming difficulties in assimilation and application of knowledge
"pure" science.

There is a tendency towards such a revision of scientific knowledge
and in bourgeois society, in parallel with the tendency towards trust-
regulated production, a trend towards normalization, pants
Dartization of scientific organization of labor, etc.

But just as these tendencies are eventually suppressed
anarchy and the class structure of capitalist society,
Likewise, in the field of science they cannot achieve significant strength
and can only prepare the conditions for the creative work of the fly-by
Riata.

How to organize a planned world socialist economy
economy can only be realized by the proletariat under its own conditions
political and ideological dictatorship, using prepared technical
ical basis—and the revision of science in the indicated direction, and
it is precisely her “target setting” for socialism that can be completed
only with the direct participation of the working class, under its influence
tion and to the extent of his creative activity.

We considered the issue of the class character of science, in particular
of the sciences of natural history, from the point of view of this moment, -
their static. As for the dynamics of science, the tendency of its long-term
further development, then ananalysis of this question leads to even more
teaching conclusions.

There is no dispute among Marxists that the social sciences have transformed
gravitated towards becoming a direct servant of the bourgeoisie. It is appropriate to ask the question:
what influence can and will have on the exact sciences the same
reasons that turned social science into a downright handmaiden
bourgeoisie? Isn't this the main tendency characteristic of
development of bourgeois scientific thought in general? Are we not facing
the prospect of formalizing “vulgar natural science,” if possible
so to speak, as we are already facing the fact of vulgar political
economic economy, betrayed and sold to the bourgeoisie?

Subsequently, to the 2nd edition of Capital, Marche wrote:
“The bourgeoisie in France and England gained political power.
From this moment on, the class struggle, practical and theoretical,
ical, is taking on more and more pronounced and threatening forms.
At the same time, the death hour has struck for scientific bourgeois economics.”

“From now on, for the bourgeois economist, the question is already
not whether this or that theorem is correct or incorrect, but
whether it is useful or harmful for capital, convenient or inconvenient,
and

No. 8 about Me 3 9 99

whether consistent with political considerations or not. Selfless
research gives way to battles of mercenaries, unprincipled
passionate scientific research is replaced by biased, servile apology
tika (justification)."

There is also no dispute among communists that monopoly
ical stage of capitalism, introducing regulating principles into
economic life, at the same time there is a stage of “expanded
reproduction" of the internal contradictions of the capitalistic system
topics. The latter trend outweighs the first, and the monopoly
The stage of capitalism leads the system to “decay”.

But, if the basis “rots,” then sooner or later this must happen.
lead to the same process in the area of superstructures. "Rotting"
bourgeois form of parliamentarism is a fait accompli that has transformed
the transformation of the social sciences into a direct servant of the bourgeoisie - too.
Queue for scientific researchI will work in the field of exact sciences without fertilizing
driven by new creative impulses due to the paralysis of capital
listic economic life in connection with degrading production
driving forces.

The entire chain of superstructures, in the process of localized class struggle,
brought by the bourgeoisie into a state of self-defense.

Self-defense, not development, is the slogan of modern capitalism.
Self-defense in the field of science means its stagnation, decomposition, replacement
“disinterested research” “battles of hired hacks”, i.e.,
the same process for science in general, a brilliant characteristic
which Marx just gave for political economy
money lines.

Self-defense along the entire scientific front is expressed in
transformation of the “unconscious materialism” of scientists into conscious
idealism, neo-Kantianism, anti-Darwinism, vitalism, clericalism.

For a degenerating society, it is natural and necessary to restore
new religious ideology. Religious "way of presentation"
becomes a mandatory form of bourgeois scientific thinking.

Materialistic thinking, conscious scientific materialism
lism - becomes a scientific barricade behind which one defends and
the proletariat attacks along the entire line of the ideological front and
honest researchers who have joined it, and which is stormed by
bourgeois scientific thought under the religious-idealistic banner.
It is clear which side of the barricade will continuously beat the living
a spring of creative scientific thought,

' The assimilation of the scientific heritage of the bourgeoisie, its critical re-
work in collaboration with honest scientists, the proletariat, genuine
proletarian science—will be created under the protection of scientific mathematics
realist barricade, under the banner of scientific materialism.

7*

50
100 KO" RV No. 8

The facts proving this are obvious: in the field of struggle psychology
ba goes between individualistic, psychology, based on
metaphysical concept of “soul”, as a special substance, “free
will“, etc., and objective reflexology based on
experimental works of Pavlov-Sechenov and others, transitionboxes from
studying personality as an end in itself, to studying it as a member of a collective
tiva, in a social environment.

In the field of biology and physiology, a united front is
the so-called neovitalists, who recognize that the law is not subject to
to us of the inorganic world the life force that controls, instead
Lord God, processes in the animal and plant world.

Anti-Darwinism becomes a ticket of honor for entry into
abusive society of bourgeois scientists.

On the use of groups hostile to the working class
bourgeois scientists of relativity and electron theory
for the final expulsion of materialism from all areas of science
knowledge—we spoke earlier.

Along this line, a trend has already emerged and continues to develop.
tion “Toward the decay” of bourgeois scientific thought.

This process of decomposition must be counteracted by efforts
proletariat in the direction of preserving creative scientific research
ny. The more clearly the working class realizes that on its shoulders
history has assigned the responsibility of processing the scientific heritage,
adaptation of scientific tools to the tasks of its struggle and construction
the more easily he will be able to assimilate scientific knowledge in such a way as to relate
approach them critically so as not to clutter your mind with that rubbish
which is not needed." The sooner he will unite under the banner of scientific
materialism and Marxism of all honest scientists, oh new
creative ways in various fields of knowledge.

The dynamics of scientific thought are also subject to another trend, in
to a significant extent the opposite of the first. Ega living scientific
the stream comes from scientists - researchers, or directly involved
acting as organizers in production, or in one way or another with
firmly connected with it, in the person of the so-called technical intelligence
gentii. OYAA is interested in the development of productive forces, independent
depending on their form and the economic structure of society. Significant-
Its various layers flow into the general flow of the labor movement.

To overcome the tendency towards decay of scientific thought, to encourage
her to a new, unprecedented creative flowering—the proletariat suhas,
using these layers of technical intelligentsia, actively participating
in creativity under the unifying great slogan: construction
proletarian culture.
No. 8 about UT 101

The next task of the proletariat in its struggle for the possession of scientific
The main legacy of the bourgeois world is the promotion of the assimilation
technical intelligentsia of the proletarian “way of representation”,
its assimilation by the proletariat as an honest fellow traveler, and partly
and fellow fighter.

The positive impact of this trend is especially dramatic
is based on a group of physical and technical disciplines developed
mainly by the technical intelligentsia. This group of sciences
since it is most suitable for use by its proletariat, in it
the creative work of thought will continue, the search for methods for long-term
further growth and development of productive forces.

The “decay” of capitalism must inevitably lead to scientific
the thought of these researchers from the circle of bourgeois ideas on
the road of socialism, as the only one where all scientific achievements
and scientific creativity will find a comprehensive opportunity for their
applications. This healthy life tendency will have to be
appear as a strong reflected jet throughout the entire scientific system, but only
However, if the proletariat shows maximum creativity,
clarity of understanding, perseverance and consciousness in the fight against the bourgeois
culture for socialism, for proletarian culture.

In general, for the present moment our dispute about the problem
proletarian culture must be considered the very practice of life p
nom. And the solution is in our favor.

Persistently and repeatedly expressed dissatisfaction on the part of
Republican Faculty and Communist Students of Higher Educational Institutions and Communities
organization of teaching at universities and, in particular, natural sciences,
far from Marxist ideology and dialectical materialism,
not in any way connected with production technology, the concept offered
I stand in an idealistic shell - served as an impetus for the production
and a partial solution to the issue.

The Conference of Communities last yearyala
resolution in which the main tasks of community universities in the field of
The principles of science are: 1) processing of all educational material into
on the basis of Marxism and dqualectical materialism, 2) unification
it on the basis of dialectical materialism, 3) the introduction of historical
sky element in the course of natural science and mathematics.

Moreover: in the materials of the Agitprop of the Central Committee of the RCP for the KhPI Congress, in
theses on school communist education—also recognized
the urgent need to rework the scientific bourgeois
heritage, and this task is entrusted to the Socialist Academy:

“The main task of the Socialist Academy is in relation to
to the general system of public education there should be scientific research

$7
102 I'm No. 8

Russian work in the field of theory and practice of Marxism and the transformation
into a Marxist scientific and methodological center, leading the re-
botka of the entire scientific heritage of the bourgeoisie on the basis of dialectical
materialism."

The ideas for which Proletkult has been tirelessly fighting for 5 years,
hope to find practical implementation in life.
About renunciation is not true

I. Kan.

0 CLASS APPROACH
ON THE PROBLEM OF SCIENTIFIC ORGANIZATION OF LABOR.

Is a class approach to the problem of scientific organization possible?
labor rations? If possible, what does it involve?

Under capitalism we have such an organization of labor in which
swarm the interests of the producer-worker himself are not taken into account
are. The capitalist entrepreneur is interested exclusively
in the greatest use of labor; the worker himself considers
appears as its carrier.

In this case, the bourgeois scientific organization of labor can
be reduced to the highest possible use of labor, i.e.
to extract the greatest amount of surplus value from the worker
bridges,

The diametrically opposite principle is also possible: approach
to NOT “from the inside”, based on the interests of the producers themselves,
consider the problem from the point of view of labor and therefore consider it
scientific organization, for which the decisive criterion was
would first have the most careful attitude towards workerssilt and then
the tasks would be to preserve it, further grow it, improve
qualifications, etc. In other words, it would be regulated not only
expenditure of labor, but also its restoration and development, care
about work would merge with concern for the employee.

The two indicated approaches receive their results to a high degree
characteristic reflection in the very division of the problem into scientific
organization, on the one hand, of “labor”, on the other, “production”.

This division indicates a certain coexistence
the existence of two apparently different problems suggests two different
series of phenomena that are not necessarily interconnected, especially
subordinate to each other. The phenomenon is quite natural for capital
listic society with its class antagonisms and struggles.

This is a comparison or opposition of the interests of labor
interests of production—remains largely valid for
capitalism and until the end it is irremovable for any sour cream
formations. Only under socialism is this opposition of labor to production

would disappear: both moments will merge into a more general concept, to be
maybe something like a cultural organization,
104 Ca I No. 8

However, at present it seems essential
expand the content of the concept of scientific organization of labor far
beyond the organization of only the labor act. This is an extension
corresponds to the second, later, period of development of the worker
class.

During the first phase the working class is forced to fight more quickly
for the elementary conditions of self-preservation, he approaches work with
aspects of self-defense, which puts forward independent
creative tasks. At the next, later stage, moderately
their real participation in the organization of production and even to
this, when he is just preparing to fulfill his historical
missions, organization of socialist production, - proletariat
forced by the entire course of events to expand the problem of labor organization
to a more general concept—organization of production, if conditionally
accept that labor is included in the concept of productionstva as the main
its constituent element,

Thus, the proletarian point of view on NOT, in contrast
from the bourgeois, on the one hand, it distinguishes the interests of labor itself,
and not the capital that organizes it, as the decisive criterion, on the other hand
goy—considers the scientific organization of labor and production as
a single, holistic task.

Thus, the scope of its activities includes problems not
only psycho-physiology of labor, but also technical, management
chesical, etc.

The next sign by which the two can be distinguished
approach to the problem of NOT, is the field of its application.

The typically bourgeois field of action of NOT is a single
enterprise or group of such enterprises under a single technical
fanatic leadership: this is a natural base for the bourgeois
different NOTES.

Here the work process can be clearly organized:
all factors of production, equipment, quantity
quality of machines, raw materials, labor - a strict correlation is fixed -
the strength of all elements from a quantitative and qualitative point of view,
a pattern has been established in their use in space and
time, strictly weighed, conceived and carried out technological pro-
process as a whole, etc. d.

However, all this fundamentally does not go beyond the individual
new enterprise. “On the problems of organizing labor and production
The thinking and practice of the advanced countries of Europe and
S.-A. United States; however, with few exceptions, even then
later times—mainly the object of her research and possibly
action is a single enterprise or individual elements
No. 8 I E E 105

“It”, Sometimes the object of “analysis can be an entire industrial sector
ity, but even then the formulation of the problem does not fundamentally work
beyond the limits of, albeit a large, but still partial task.

The thought of a practitioner and theorist can also be directed towards
studying the smallest details of the labor process: it can systematize
systematically, steadily, with a kind of inspiration, ever deeper
divide a complex set of labor processes intoforming it
“elements-molecules”, decomposing the latter further into “productive
“real atoms”, fix the analysis on the elements of motion, take into account
shortest periods of time; but, one way or another, considered
from a bourgeois point of view, the scientific organization of labor is essentially
sotvu does not go beyond partial tasks, never rising
to a holistic solution to a holistic problem. .

It would, however, be a great misunderstanding to recognize these
dachas are “bourgeois”, consider them unnecessary, and even more harmful.
Extremely much of the bourgeois NOTE - especially from the sphere
technology—included in the proletarian as its constituent element.

It is advisable to emphasize only the fundamental point of expanding
The basis for NOTES: far beyond the boundaries of a single enterprise.
Where are its boundaries? Where is the field of activity of the proletarian NOT?

In the most general form we can say that it completely coincides
with the field of cooperation of the proletariat. What are its limits?

For the initial period of capitalism it was possible to conditionally
argue that it is mainly limited by the national
national scale; for later periods, especially
swathes of financial capitalism—it has expanded to scale
world By analogy with the fetishism of individual enterprise,
must be considered an illusion, a fetish, the existence of an independent,
self-sufficient production taking place within an isolated
states. This can be sufficiently judged from the significant
imbalance of the modern economy after the rupture of the world
new connections during the war and revolution.

The world economy is now a reality, although the political
physically, due to historical conditions, it may consist of separate
“independent” state entities.

The fact of internationalization of the global production process
is the starting point for fixing the limiting field
application of NOT - if we approach the latter from the point of view of in-

‘the interests of the proletariat, interpreted in detail.

Thus, the task comes down not only to scientific
noy organization of the “technical division of labor” within the enterprise
acceptance, no matter how versatile and deep it may be carried out, but to

$5
106 a. R.V No. 8

to create the prerequisites for a scientific organization of “public
"nomal division of labor."

Marx's political economy revealed the essence of capital
tical method of production, revealed the trends of its development
towards socialism, but did not set itself the construction
positive creative tasks.

As the proletariat itself grows, its tasks expand in
all areas of his practice and theory, including, first of all,
re---production.

Thus, passing NOTE, naturally, includes in itself
and economic problems, issues of scientific organization of processes
cooperation, collective creativity, management, distribution
it. d.

Ultimately, the task may expand to the global
howl of a planned, socialist organization of production, if
formulate the problem in the most general and universal form.

This should also include issues related to the analysis of methods
materials, the use of which can contribute to the most economical
use of this available productive forces.

Even more varied—and often more complex—are the wadachi put forward by
before NOT our reality.

Let's take some questions at random, such as whether we should continue to spray
production or, conversely, based on the growth of productive forces
country and favorable political situation is more expedient
reassemble production into more significant and powerful
associations.

To solve the question of which industries the first path is correct,
for some - different.

Other specific questions may arise—volume 0, based on
what characteristics are it advisable to organize trusts: according to the characteristics
production, territorial, or mixed, like this
takes place in reality.

Even more general and fundamentally complex questions arise
due to the coexistence of different types of economic structures in our country:
how to combine rationally semi-planned managementnationalized
large-scale industry with dispersed agriculture in cultivation
new development of commodity-exchange relations?

And further. In what order should it be restored?
separate links of the state mechanism? Should I start?
with “management”, improvement of the state apparatus and, in
first of all, from its control and inspection units (RCI),
or follow the path of direct further development of production
active forces, based on taking into account which links of the entire mechanism
No. 8 S 30 d 7 No. 107

are the most lagging behind and therefore delay progressively
progressive move of others? Don't think that these are questions
only “economic” and should not be included in NOT. Marxist
NOT includes “economic problems” in its design, such as
component.

The next sign of the class approach in NOT is
application of a historical point of view. Your first formulations
so-called “scientific organization of labor” received only
at the end of the last century. But it is quite obvious that even before the appearance
In the course of these works, in reality, in practice, there was not only labor, but also
its scientific organization. She only had her own specific origins.
ric forms. With the development of productive forces, the basis for change
changes in the social structure, methods of organizing labor also change.
Labor proceeded in specific forms and its planned, conscious
organization in crafts, manufactories, and industrial enterprises
yation of early classical capitalism, otherwise it is organized now
at advanced factories in Germany or America.

The principles developed by Taylor and his school are only
a special, specifically bourgeois form of their manifestation in the conditions
highly developed capitalism. Therefore erroneous and not Marxist
point of view should be considered the statement that Taylorism is
“distortion”, “grimace” of some generally classless “scientific”
labor organization." NOT, like any other discipline, has
its source is the social process of labor and serves as an instrument
eth further organization, and the quality of this weapon is ultimately
account is determined by the material, its purpose to assist in
In one case, the processes of scientific organization of bourgeois production
tsva, in the other - socialist.

$7
Art:
S. Tretyakov.

ART IN THE REVOLUTION
AND A REVOLUTION IN ART,

(Aesthetic consumption and production). .

If you now take a close look at what is happening in Russia,
Russian art, what the activities of art workers result in
in Russia and abroad, then the amazing
the unity of forces on the right flank of painters and writers.

It is enough to glance briefly at Russian emigrant magazines,
so that behind the ardent hatred of the creator of the new, Soviet Russia, “beautiful
nomu boor”, as they call the workers of the revolution, to watch
sighs of condolences for great writers and artists, for good
books in cozy apartments, about the fact that the intelligentsia is the earth of the earth.
The “great” ones—Tolstoy, Pushkin, Vrubel, and Roerich—nominated
chickpeas like heavy weapons by these bastards in defense of the “great
past" (in other words, "the good old days").

This foreign clique groans over the Russian ballet and
An artistic theater that consoles foreign citizens. Co
the lines of these magazines continue to talk about a “charming fairy tale”,
about the “world of dreams”, where theater, paintings and poetry take the weary
everyday life the soul of the reader and viewer. “Eternal beauties”, and such
same “truths” and their inviolability are supported by references to the flourishing
religious sentiments in Russia, and dreams become more and more persistent
0b this gingerbread Russia, Russia of restaurant gypsy romances,
felt domes, pies, triples, philistine feather beds and well-
great well-being.

I would not mention this phenomenon if it had
place only among emigrant circles.

There, let the dead bury their dead.

No - the united front of emigrant art has its own tenacious
flank in Russia. In Russia, perhaps, they are more modest and careful, but
also stubbornly under the cover of the NEP, iso in allthe burrow is crawling with evil spirits, reptile
saying that it’s time for the revolution to die (as if this revolution is something like
draft, which can be stopped by closing the window), that it’s time
to once again call upon the “great bright shadows” of the Russian (read: bourgeois)

5%
112 oh No. 8

intelligentsia) culture, which is enough to talk about a person in connection
with the titanic efforts of the production team, -man-
it sounds proud and in itself; power is in everyday life - in the power of things
and familiar surroundings over a person—in a word, yes healthy
lives the common man and the comfort of home, long live our immortal
past; glory to God in the highest (he will take you out), peace on earth and among people
We all have goodwill - my hut is on the edge, I don’t know anything.

The singer on this reactionary flank is St. Petersburg, this
an impoverished “specialist in the traditions” of the great “Russian art”.

And again, perhaps it wouldn’t be worth writing about these groups either.
smelled, if they hadn’t pro-
showed great vitality if there was no sense behind them
holding some united sentiments, the spokesmen of which they
are.

On the other hand, on the revolutionary flank of the intelligence officers,
who connected the cause of revolution with the cause of art, one senses a certain
confusion, inconsistency.

When you meet with the responsible leaders of the revolutionary
press satisfied statements that we finally have “advice”
everyday life”, when Andrei Bely, the mystic, is the inspiration
proletarian poets, when fiction is born in a wave,
Shutseya novels and stories “reflecting” revolutionary episodes
and feeling, it becomes clear how little was eaten in order to
so that the system of revaluations put forward by the revolution in relation to
to all areas of life, apply to art. Don't forget—
we have entered a period when consciousness must crystallize
those thoughts and feelings that will constitute a true “conquest”
revolution." Now the front of the ideological organization of mankind
century there is a serious front. And in this direction we need such
same tensionnew “struggle for consciousness”, which in politics and economics
Mike is conducted “for being.” We are not one of those fatalists
“simplifying” Marxism, who believe that consciousness will come
“of course” with a change in production forms. No, every
knowledge that enlightens revolutionary tasks and every strengthening
revolutionary activity, feeling we attribute to chiel, let
derivative, but active factors that process a person
and accelerating our progress towards the creation of a “global com-
producers' moons."

If so, then first of all it should be with the highest
a number of basic questions are clearly posed in that camp of art-
builders for whom the revolution is not an accidental episode, not a “brick”
on the bald head from the cornice.”
No. 8 e. Oo: O 118

Revolution—objectively—is a historical process of class change
leaders, associated with a sharp acceleration of the pace
changes in socio-economic forms, and subjectively - awareness
new tasks and techniques for their implementation by an individual, organized
from the point of view of the interests of the team.

Isn’t art one of the pro-branch processes?
among other industries? In what relationship does art stand?
in life, what is his role in it?

Do works of art have absolute value or
obey the principle of relativity inherent in Marxist
dialectics? What causes the production of aesthetic products
(works of art) and what determines the consumption of these
products by the team?

In what direction should this production and consumption
develop from the point of view of communism? Are the tasks exhausted?
revolutions in the field of art by image and display, or
art is given organizational and constructive tasks,
which are not feasible in the forms that have existed until now? What's re-
Is it dictated to change the principles of “form and content”?

To what extent is the art of our revolution at the same time
time and revolutionary art, i.e. rebuilding their
methods and techniques in a new way to implement newtasks?

These are a few of the questions that require the most honest
attention to oneself from those for whom all human activities
(including art) must be subordinated to the main organi-
ational task.

It must be admitted that these questions, although they are posed far
not for the first time, myel somehow bypassed the builders of a new life. These
issues did not become central points in the battles between old and new
aesthetic ideologies. Leave them sketchy. Rarely worked on -
went deeper, and most often they were simply brushed aside, preferring
reading it gropingly, focusing not so much on the “created future,”
as for the same “cultural yesterday”. It turned out something like a schol-
stical epor of nativists: the Bible (old culture) was one
both for revolutionaries and reactionaries, the debate was only about
in which direction to turn the drawbar of this bible on the critical levers.

So, the question is about sharpening our positions and food
fight © revivalists of old aesthetic tastes define
lazy and active,

How were questions about art and its relation resolved?
to life during the period of tension of the revolutionary wave by those who actually
did he personally direct the use of revolutionary energy?

8
114 E = No. 8

There are slogans: art for everyone! Art to the masses! Isvus-
let's go to the street!

These slogans are quite vague if we accept
take into account that there are two sides to art: consolidation in mathematics
Reale of personal experiences and feelings (creativity) and action
created forms on the human psyche (perception).

These two sides in the environment of bourgeois society are distributed
are between two different groups. Group perceive-
shakh - passive audience, people who have given most of their lives
meaninglessly used, unloved work - sought to fill
spend your leisure time doing something that brings you joy, interest, excitement
mood with minimal energy expenditure. People were looking for where
They would like to get away from the monotonous and boring routine. And to the rescue
they received painters, poets, musicians,actors. Under the brand
teachings, improvements, supermundane spiritual insights, people
next to their own life, acceptable, although with whining, but
unquestioningly, another, fictitious life was presented. People
were taken to other eras, to other ideas, to fiction. Art
was a trick of an almost hypnotic nature, it was a drug,
coexisting in human consciousness next to real life
another life, albeit illusory, but all the more attractive.

The artist became a magician, a sorcerer, gifted from above,
a beholder and a soothsayer. His skill in processing material,
was called “genius” - a word in which a certain
miraculous meaning. Reality objected to such art.
istic and naturalistic art, the task of which was
show life as it is. But this second direction has grown
expected ‘in photographing, in illustrating the science of everyday life and
history of social movements. Realism and naturalism took
only what already exists, and therefore trailed behind life, often
systematizing it, but by no means organizing it in the direction of the desired
forms

It should be noted the movement in art, which, directing everything
the artist’s attention to the material given to him and the ways of processing it
boots and placements (compositions), prepared in their laboratories
methods for conscious and purposeful use of this material
(word, color, sound, solid materials). Main axis of this movement
passed through leftist groups, which retained the goal of developing an active
and the craftsmanship of the human psyche.

The psychology of the human worker was already outlined on the threshold of the revolution.
Its properties are the constantly joyful tension of overcoming chaotic
cultural and inert phenomena, the tireless development of new ways of organizing

yay
with

No. 8 tose in 115

However, in most cases, what was read as revolutionary was not the one
work in the field of art, which brought art into the ranks of ordinary
production and organizational processes are most appropriate
figurative use of language, colorful,plastic and music
fecal material. Revolutionism in creativity is usually its own,
was eager to use a revolutionary plot in the work
and image. That is why there is a revolution in the work of poets and artists
of our era remained an “event” that is written about, which is described
vayut. This phenomenon is called revolutionary thematicism. Changes
only the theme, everything else remains from the old isolated from
life or the art that follows it.

The man just in dimensional and metric circumstantial terms
kah who sang of the starry night, floral scents or his sadness
and melancholy, begins to sing of the revolution: the banner—flame, conflagration—
comrade. b

Again, as if in a panopticon, people are taken to look at the revolution
lucia through the window of verse. But then... time, next to art,
and almost independently of it, a whole new language is born—eres-
feser, eovdep, check, sorabis - brave, economical. Oratorical platform
throws soft characteristics, words, witticisms at people,
slogans. Does it matter how a person praises the resolution? Existence
Indeed, another thing is how he will see through her in a new way, feel
appears, will name the objects surrounding him. Materialistic
dialectics, giving all things and phenomena a service role,
since these things or phenomena are practically justified, without implying
art, for which even during the revolution it remained
prayer and decorative function. The poet found himself in the role of a priest,
went to the former church to serve the former liturgy, and that’s all,
instead of Christ, he began to remember Marx.

True, the principle of propaganda art was put forward, i.e.
using works of art for practical purposes to convince
teachings, teachings, reminders. But even here they forgot two things: 1) why
the propaganda poem and poster must “command” stronger,
than a resolution, order, drawing and diagram; and 2) whether the force is diminished
aa’itations by constructing the poem in the previous forms, pre-
calls to divert human attention from this practical
moment.

After all, the poem continuedbe a poem, a poster—
a picture, that is. isolated aesthetic organisms. And all
the area of living human pain remained untouched and continued
the sting has become dull and inexpressive. We called from
poems that the revolution is great, red, world-wide; that she is a squall,
explosion, saint, etc. But few people showed us in what words

8*

$8
“

———Shhh,

116 THIEF You are No. 8

a person illuminated by the revolution names all the things around him:
stones, the sun, your body, herbs, metals, love, tools?
And, after all, in this reshaping of one’s attitude towards the whole world lies
a prerequisite for revolutionary creativity.

Now—0 the other side of the art-production process—
collective consumption of works of art.

It would seem that a caste of specialists who, from somewhere, almost from heaven,
in “bursts of inspiration” they bring down the sacred fire of expressive
words and images, color and sound combinations - this caste should
come to an end with the revolution. Everyone can and should express themselves
speak, move, paint things with expressive colors,
to bring into every thing he produces that maximum precision,
clarity, expediency, which until now had
The specialists who devoted themselves to this work are seekers of forms and workers of art.
Let us remember: every person in childhood draws, dances, invents
apt words, sings. Why, having grown up, does he only walk occasionally?
admire the artist’s “creation”, being himself extremely inexpressible
telny? Isn't this phenomenon rooted in the conditions of capitalist
labor, where the labor process is a curse, and a person strives for the end
there is leisure there? Is it normal for a person to lose his active
artistic instinct, transforming him from a master maker
into the viewer-consumer?

Art for everyone! This slogan should mean the highest
measure of a person’s masterful flexibility in all his practical actions
actions—whether he speaks, whittles, or sharpens, convinces the audience,
or commands an army, walks down the street, or sews a dress. Joy
converting raw material into nsome generally useful
form, accompanied by skill and intense search for the most
purposeful form—that’s what this “art” should be
everyone." Everyone should be an artist, a perfect master
in the work he is currently doing.

But instead, instead of awareness of socialist labor
process, as the only joyful and necessary one, is given to people
parallel to life is growing art. “Art for everyone” provides
is achieved only by the democratization of old art. Art objects
creative creativity are made available to everyone as far as possible:
concert halls, theaters, art galleries are filled with working people...
falling in masses. People again “immerse themselves in contemplation”, “empathy”
""---instead of perceiving the poem as the first experience
organization of a living human language that requires co-creation;

‚theater—as the first incentive to the rhythm of joint construction

life etc. p,
No. 8 property 117

The democratization of art, on the contrary, has led to the fact that
works that took the former masters of life into the “world of art”,
became soft sofas for its new owners—the proletarians.
Instilled by the bourgeois environment and hated labor, the habit of searching
filling leisure time in artistic contemplation, immersion in charm-
the knowledge of verse, melody and dance was strengthened.

Do we really have responsible leaders of brains in the region?
“revolutionary” art, which, for example, spoke about the theater,
that it is “a way of filling the leisure time of a proletarian tired of working
Goodbye." We must remember that the curse of forced labor works
indeed gave birth to such a need at one time. It is also pre-
was conducive to the perception of that dregs of “bourgeois culture”, which
instilled passivity and contemplation: art was the best
taking people away from the everyday rigmarole into other worlds. Let's take Ame-
Riku, there is a colossal organization, the “Christian Union of Moso-
the life of the People,” is maintained by the capitalists and has a
partly religious, and partly aesthetic-contemplativebefore-
‹the lands of the working classes in order to create in them a peiology of urns
bourgeois contentment. Is this what we are striving for?

The democratization of art as it is carried out
has only one positive property - it serves as an education
purposes, to acquaint the masses with the aesthetic manifestations of pre-
previous generations; true “art for everyone” must consist
not at all in turning all people into spectators, but on the contrary—in assimilating
all those qualities and that ability to build and organize raw materials
material, which was especially characteristic of art specialists. This is -
first. Secondly, in the involvement of the entire mass in that process of “creation”
renia”, but who have hitherto been “sacredly performed” alone.

Our practical life, in its movement, ups and downs,
discoveries and disasters, joys and misfortunes - our life, in
the process of socialization of production and consumption, forcing
individual units stick together into granite blocks of the collective—yours,
life as a whole is the only important and essential plot, about
which must be organized by word, sound, paint, material and human
human action.

In connection with the revolution and the prospects opening up in it,
the question of art, as aesthetic, must be raised and considered
production and consumption, about the relationship between art and life.
Practical life must be colored by art in all its
manifestations every minute. Everyone should become an artist-builder
lem of this life. Maybe your poems will disappear like fireworks
poetic insights and reincarnations, they will remain as indicators
new points of language reconstruction. The center of gravity of art is

$9
118 OR No. 8

child in life itself—in the lines and shapes of its things, in the language in which
they speak every day, in the sounds of factories, factories, ports, streets, tractors
-drov and work meetings. Everything for the needs of man—such is the behest of the revolution-
{ tions. Less than perfect works of art should captivate
attention of the builders of life, but a perfect person, full of organizational
`vatersky gibbones and the will to overcome the obstacles that lie ahead
path to complete mastery of life. `
The science of art and painting is now moving in this direction.
stitching together all production processes, to the greatest ©o-
excellence, productivity and joyfulness of which we are led by social
new revolution.

5. Arvatov.

ART AND PRODUCTION.

1. ARTISTIC MANUFACTURES OF ROYAL ABSOLUTISM.

The era of manufacturing capitalism created large bourgeois
feudal monarchies headed by nobles. Public
new production has finally become production for the market, and
the remnants of socially organized life gave way to the life of an individual
visually-family.

There was nothing for the artist-craftsman to do here: craft is not
could compete with manufacture, but there was a way into manufacture
closed. The bourgeoisie was not interested, and could not be interested,
artistic inventor; the market is dominated by no consumption
bitelskaya, not a specific value, but an exchange value. Otherwise
while the bourgeois organizers of production cared only about
the personal side of products (maximum savings, processing and
practical suitability). Not only that: manufacturing has so completely supplanted
craft has become such a commanding form of production that
first, the overwhelming majority of market products were supplied by manu-
texture and, therefore, a narrow circle of consumption remained behind the craft
beaters; secondly, the craft had to be equal in manufacture, in
reduce qualifications due to the higher cost of crafts
production and, finally, develop such forms of consumer goods
values that would satisfy the market and would first be quoted
from the forms of the new market ruler—manufacture. Beyond these conditions
made it impossible for the artist to make more or less detailed
work neither in manufacture nor in crafts.

In addition, the old customer, the city, was gradually reduced to nothing.
The cities were now headed by government officials, collective
the life of the former community fell apart, there was nothing to organize and artistic
nik, who was essentially once the organizer of everyday life, more
had no direct connection with him, the new king of society was waiting for him
nature: spontaneous, indifferent and impersonal market with its nonmosuiii
template.

60
120. Her. No. 8

There was only one island of organized life left: the short
Levsky court, which preserved the family traditions of the feudal aristocracy,
systematically regulating his social existence. and needy
therefore, in the conscious material design of this being, i.e.
in art. In addition to the need, there was also an opportunity, -og-
rich financial resources, without which art would be unthinkable
natural manufactory. Indeed: since this kind of pro-
production, due to its extreme high cost and impossibility therefore
could not count on competing with conventional manufactories
for mass market sales - since this kind of production
inevitably became isolated and had to pour out entirely
into the production of luxurious one-of-a-kind items, so there was nothing from him
wait for profit. The artistic manufactory has become a manufactory
subsidized, she was supported by the state
know, and its social significance was limited to service
feudal ruling elite.

At the head of this royal artistic production is a hundred
They were the royal artists.

Court artists existed before, in the era of craftsmanship.
merged forms of production, but now their position in the production
This process has changed dramatically: if the craft, i.e. individual
technique, allowed the artist to be at the same time an organizer
and performer, then now, in the collective production of manufactory
the artist's direct involvement had to cease. He
became over the production process as only an organizer;
since the manufacture preserved manual craft, to the extent material
new collaboration between the artist and his numerous staff
assistants, masters and apprentices, were possible; however, bad
the artist’s divine plans have undergonestrong change. B
era of commercial capitalism, the artist eliminated from the system of social
natural division of labor, but technically it was still no different
from any manufacturer of material assets. Now the artist
Nick also left the system of technical division of labor. If in the first
in this case, violence against the material followed and the separation of mathematics
rial from the form, then in the second case there was complete triumph
shapes over the material. Personal taste began to dictate her will
cial matter. The artist was not considered to have production qualifications.
fication of a thing, but with its consumer subjective assessment, he does not
built, and wrote sketches, invented decorations, patterns, ornaments.

True, the artist’s taste was not yet arbitrary—the artist, as
I pointed out that I was a servant of the feudal aristocracy and its
subordinated his will to his needs, but if we turn to these needs,
facts, then the conclusions will be deadly for the artist,
No. 8 Io in 121

The feudal aristocracy of the manufacturing period grew
a waiting group of semi-parasites; its organizational, social
the required functions were minimal. The royal court is increasingly
and more and more turning into a burdensome appendage to the state; him
life was not a social-organizational life, but an idle and
merry camarilla. The organization of such a life could not pursue
no utilitarian tasks, the natural goal was to demonstrate
tion of class domination. Life was organized insofar as
it was necessary to outwardly elevate him, to exalt him above society;
in other words, life was reduced to etiquette, to a ceremonial ceremony - this
there was form for the sake of form, luxury for the sake of luxury, naked visual
pleasure, a kind of aesthetic debauchery.

The only organizing force, that formal core,
without which no style is conceivable, there was a tribal tradition of the feudal
fishing, degenerating from a once expedient ritual into ostentatious
decoration. Naturally, the center of gravity of artistic production
the place was moved to where decoration dominated. Artists
built their fame on the invention of wall hangings (tapestry),
lace, ribbons, paintings of porcelain tableware, furniture fabrics, mau-
jackets, collars, etc. This invention was still possible;
because artistic production and social production
production were built on the same manufacturing technology. Thanks
Therefore, the technical progress that has taken place in social production
water, prompted by market competition, immediately use
calling in artistic production; it was the only one
support for the evolution of the style of that time: no artistic-formal
New development is unthinkable without technical creativity. But, since in
In this case, technical creativity was brought from outside, and artistic
All that remained was the creativity of external forms, then the discord between
the form of a thing and its design was not only a consequence of the then
organization of artistic production, but also its inevitable
condition. Just as the feudal aristocracy represented
by the end of the 18th century, the decoration of the sovereign, in gold
hiding the structural collapse of the country from unwary eyes, -
her art was the decoration of things, the social and everyday meaning of which
growth was reduced to almost zero, and the technical design was frenzied
and anti-utilitarian waste of material.

The bourgeoisie was either indignant, or in the person of its elite
financial strata, workers, tastelessly copied the aristocracy, having
Shuyu; at least one thing: hereditary strictness and endurance
ness of taste.

Industrial revolution of the end of the eighteenth century, machine
technology and the rule of the bourgeoisie put an end to this latter

6/
122 For" No. 8

artistic picking: production. The age of stylization has arrived and
applied arts.

2. APPLIED ART OF MACHINE CAPITALISM.

Artistic manufactories continued to exist in
HMPH century, but in a different form. First of all, their
number: the circle of consumers of constrictor to an extreme minimum. Tem. not
less, each state considered it its duty to patronize
"prosperity" youof the emerging art and for this clearly ostentatious
the target contained two or three manufactories.

At the same time. the time when social production relied on
progressive machine technology, art, “sacred” art
the population continued to be content with the pitiful out-of-date manual technique
textures. This happened because the machine finally removed
artist-craftsman from the technical process of processing materials
rials, and the organizer of the new factory could be anyone, but
just not an artist. In the same place where art still laid claim to
organizational functions, it had to put up with this manufacturing
swarm, let’s say that other equipment was not recognized: the machine was
declared the strangler of “unfree” creativity.

The results were immediate: the artistic manufacture
Tura turned out to be incapable of evolution, or even preservation
previous qualifications.

The point is that every formal progression is a function of

technical progress. Once the manufactory became a greenhouse stele, once
no force pushed her towards technical improvement, since
technical evolution has moved into the sphere of mechanized processes
production—manufacture could not help but become stagnant. She is helpless
powerfully marked time, using 18th-century technology in the 19th century
century.
For this alone, there is no mass production, this is a single
an essential condition for the prosperity of the suburbs in the developed capitalist
Russian society was not possible. But no matter how small the art
product, it would have some success if it had
there would be specific social tasks. They are, however, not
it was and could not be. The former manufactory served a strictly defined
divided, fixed life of the feudal aristocracy—in the 19th century
he no longer existed; last collectivized
the debris of everyday life was swept away by the Great French Revolution.

The states were headed by bourgeois parliaments, and kings
became the same bourgeois as their ministers or bankers. Generic
traditions disappeared, life became anarcho-individualistic, and its de-
No. 8 LLC123

coring (about constructive organization there could not be, of course,
and speech) now depended on the personal subjective taste of each of
art consumers.

Thus, neither the production factor nor the needs
everyday life could no longer socially and objectively manage workers
kami of artistic manufactory. In other words, artistic
manufacture has lost the opportunity to build `independent, root-
forms in her environment, she broke away from society and
hung in the air. She supplied large factories with her products.
kants, representatives of the dying landowning nobility, workers
Tala for abroad, filled museums, satisfied the desire
Surround yourself with the “chic” of all kinds of stock exchange upstarts.

The forms of its production were no longer determined by technology.
cultural, nor social and everyday tasks - these forms depended
now solely on the taste of artists who accidentally received
access to the manufactory. Artists have finally become external
element in relation to production and were engaged in what you
thought of all sorts of forms. But, since independent, organized
they could not create formal forms, they had to take these
borrow forms from past, organic eras and remake them
according to its production. The manufactory began to produce carpets under
17th century, antique vases, Renaissance furniture, etc.

Once in a private home, such things turned out to be accidental,
isolated from everyday life, they became exhibition items.
If in the era of royal absolutism artistic utensils served
lived by constant decoration of everyday life, now, not connected with
by the practice of living with nothing, it turned into a luxury item, into
“rarity”, which existed not for constant use, but
for the sake of appearance. Vases were placed in glass cabinets, plates were hung on
fabrics, carpets and fabrics were stored in chests in order to get out
to the light on special occasions. So there is nothing surprising
that the manufacture was increasingly turning to the manufacture of so-called
„idlenessshek“, one name of which indicates their role in
bourgeois life. Art has become a complete mockery of
the meaning and purpose of production, over human labor activity

quality.
%#

*

2-3 manufactories per state with quantitatively insignificant
production could not, of course, be enough to service the entire drilling
zhuaz society. Meanwhile, his aesthetic needs are
had to exist, and only massive mass could satisfy them
production with new machinery,

62,
124 RUR ZE No. 8

‹

As for the numerous petty bourgeoisie with its everyday
traditionalism and conservatism, then its needs are organized
were filled with the “accepted” pattern: flowers on saucers, swallows,
peas on scarves, roses on curtains, etc. Since
capitalist industry sought to secure purchases for itself
Patel, because she had to take into account this taste tradition
tion. Special master draftsmen worked at the factories, making
vlyavshie. patterns, etc. according to the established stamp established
stagnant methods. This is not about any artistic progress.
out of the question.

Remaining, however, there is still a significant layer of medium and large
bourgeoisie, who demanded from the machine great artistic qualifications
fication. Every decent bourgeois wanted to have in his apartment
“beautiful”, “elegant” things; every bourgeois tried to furnish himself with
in addition to ordinary, “simply useful” items, items that are sufficient
representing “pleasure”, “enjoyment”, and, if possible, ready
was spending a decent amount of money on this matter.

It goes without saying that here the first place was played by
cost of material: gold bracelets, rings, key chains, earrings, jewelry
precious stones, etc. rococo steel products in the era of capitalism
objects of a whole developed production.

The next criterion was the “beauty” of objects, and under
the bourgeois understood the beauty of those forms on which he was brought up, and so
how the aesthetic taste of the bourgeoisie is organized, firstly, by museums
antiquities, secondly, exhibitions toart or statues, then the “edge” is
nitalistic products could not help but become a complete contradiction and
with the tasks of production and with the general system of material life.

Indeed.

The organizers of machine production were owners and
engineers; The first were interested in gribyl, the second - in technology. The form is
products were not determined by anyone and were produced spontaneously. In those
in cases where capital found itself forced to contribute to
produces “edge”, he had no choice but to
the artist’s herald from the outside. But artists who grew up in production
leadership or even close acquaintances with him were no longer there.
The dominant form of art has become easel art, indie
visualistic (painting, statue). The artist turned into a loner -
an artisan who worked for the market and created non-utilitarian
anti-production things; his work was just as little like
on the social process of production, like some kind of watercolor
great landscape on a steam engine.

Coming into production from the outside, brought up as an individualist
personally, accustomed to depicting and not building, such an artist could not
No. 8 next to 125

give nothing more than purely external decoration of already finished things;
he “applied” form to the object (“applied” art), enis-
he approached things with the height of his “inspired” greatness. He wrote
landscape paintings on vases, “impresionistically” (i.e., imitating
painting), painted dishes, etc. The artist treated the thing as
to the canvas of your painting; expediency, purpose of a thing, its
technical qualifications remained out of his sight. Form
was an end in itself for him, and his own individualistic
taste is the law.

When an applied worker thought about style, the whole question was
worked for him to ensure that the same ornament (crosses,
squares, a mug) cover the outside of various objects. B
in the end, he always preferred, if he was to take on production,
ism (the bourgeoisie considered this field of activity “low”—“real”
invention was recognized as artbody painting: the illusion of value
above reality), then for handicraft production, where, at least
At least he was not constrained by any requirements of qualified technology.
On the contrary: the machine increasingly preferred to do without
extraneous, externally imposed tasks. From the organizer of the production
vital forces of humanity—art has become their brake.

3. TECHNICAL INTELLIGENCE AND THE ORIGIN OF NEW FORMS.

Beginning at the end of the 19th century, capitalist society entered into
a new historical stage. A gigantic increase in the concentration of capital,
growth and strengthening of world relations, nationalization of transport,
the phenomenon of trusts and the establishment of monopolies of intranational mass
headquarters—all this was a manifestation of a gradual and continuous
electivization of the productive forces of humanity. Simultaneously with
collectivization of production, inevitably had to collectivize
work and life. Huge industrial cities sprang up, concentrating
containing within themselves unprecedented concentrated masses of the proletariat.
The work of the intelligentsia increasingly became collectivized labor.
nom; banks, industrial institutions, government and municipal
industrial establishments, trading enterprises, technical laboratories
ries little by little turned into the same mass-collectivized
bath organisms, like plants. An increasingly large area of everyday life is historically
was removed from the jurisdiction of the individual and became a social-organization
demoted. Before this, of course, socialization began to permeate
move into an area that did not deal with private relationships
people, but with social-labor relations, i.e. into the sphere like this

65
126 6: > No. 8

called productive consumption. This includes ‘all vi-
dy communication between people and then the entire area of the organization is so-called
required working conditions: transport, telephone, radio, sewerage, industrial
clothing, etc.—a way of life that united people and replaced the functions
tions of individual character by functions of social character.

Production of elements of material life of this new type
couldn't stay, of course, at the previous private economic stage
development could not remain anarcho-accidental. Not required here
only minimal organization of production, but also the strictest
its normalization. 'Grest, serving its own railway
horn, was no longer taking into account the market, & the specific needs
everyday life (this became possible due to the fact that, firstly, the
This competition was carried out in foreign markets and, secondly,
was carried out not through the export of goods, but mainly through the export
capital); he now pursued not only the goals of barter,
but also of a consumer order: savings. convenience, maximum
flexibility, portability, versatility of things - this is the beginning of
recruit new production organizers. The same thing happened
then, when trusts organized entire cities for workers and employees
people, organized their own shops, offices, etc., or when
the work was carried out by order of states or cities. Products
were produced directly for the consumer and, moreover, for consumption
fighter of the collective. And at the same time, before steel production
technical and inventive tasks in a new field for him
sity: if previously the inventive creativity of engineering was limited
was adopted by the medium of production (machines, etc.), but now it is
I had to take up the invention of forms of life, and, moreover, such a life that
which had no traditions, was completely new and required
this is liberation from any repetition or external additions, i.e.
demanded a revolution of material forms.

But it's not enough. The sphere of productive consumption is different
first of all, by the strict regularity of its functions. The same for-
all those forms that appear must necessarily have a regularity.
arise as a result of the collectivization of everyday life. No
individual arbitrariness, no personal taste—everything is determined here.
is objective construction tasks that do not depend on any
individual consumers, nor from individual producers. Let's take it
for example, modern mountainsoda latrines, baths and showers; until then
while each apartment was independently furnished with these forms,
they were either archaic or tackily random. From the same moment
the one when large multi-apartment buildings combined sewerage
tion of buildings, and then the entire city, when the production of latrines and
etc. fell into the hands of mass production—it came, firstly,
No. 8 stop 127

unification of forms, secondly, their improvement: the ma-
material, the principle of expediency was put at the forefront, was
high technology was used, etc. The forms became modern and
spicy seasoned; they did not provide room for stylization or
for violence against material in the name of ostentatious luxury. For engineers
in the process of invention it was necessary to abandon subjective
habits, from any aesthetics; they were faced with a precise task, and in
They had only one method in their hands—machine technology; as a result
Tata got the form.

This happened wherever the needs of society were collective
highly motivated and productively limited. Typically, for example,
that modern utensils were created as kitchen utensils (aluminum-
vaya), i.e. in the field of productive consumption, and for the first time
appeared in large hotels and restaurants, i.e. in places of consumption
tion of the collective. If we look at what has been done by modern
completely new and organically independent in the furniture business, then
you will have to point out the compartments of cars and railway cars,
to the cabins of transatlantic ships, to the cabins of airplanes; on-
end, to the office bureaus of industrial enterprises.

The situation in costume production is especially interesting; in everyday life
The bourgeoisie created complete chaos of costume and so-called fashion.
And again, only the newest forms of productive consumption
developed an independent type of costume. These are, of course, all types
overalls: chauffeur and pilot suit, electrician’s jacket, clothes
waiting for athletes, etc. It was not people who commanded here, but an objective system.
forest-like nature and high technology. Extremely curiousoh what a boss
the ferr and the pilot dressed in the army, i.e. in a collectivized organization
tions. True, before the war, diversity and stylization reigned in the army -
this was a consequence of the army’s peaceful life, which consisted of para-
Dov And flaunting chic. But enough. there was a war before
It was only natural for military life to submit to the stranglehold of practically
military missions, and a new style was created—the “khaki” style, French
cha it. d.

I will also point out telephone sets, radios, electrical
chemical fittings, electric burners, etc.

Everything is the same: style begins where pro-
the arbitrariness of the individual, and, conversely, where the arbitrariness of the individual begins, there
style ends. That is why the bourgeois artist-individualist be-
sting from the car; that's why he hated modernity, not seeing
giving it nothing but “soullessness.”

However, the revolution of things brought about by big industry,
was far from complete and complete. All that was left was gigantic
the area of so-called pure everyday life, not affected in any way. The point is

4
128, t E No. 8

that engineers created the above-described forms spontaneously, they
they were subject to the guesswork of production; but as soon as these same in-
engineers went beyond precise consumer functions, like
only they took up the production of private things, for example,
that - now their eothetical education appeared on the stage, &
along with it all the old junk of outdated forms, pseudo-artistic
real “decorations”, etc. For example, many of the modern
electric chandeliers are poorly copied by 18th century candelabra
tia, etc.

Another revolution was needed—a revolution in the legal environment.
people of aesthetic taste, artists; in addition, practical
tical formulation before humanity of the task of universal
electivization of society, &, consequently, of everyday life. Both of these are
went along with the Russian proletarian revolution of 1917.

4. ART AND PRODUCTION IN THE HISTORY OF THE WORKER
MOVEMENTS.

Only since the second quarter of the 19th century has the labor movement
took quite largee dimensions in order to provide ka-
whatever it is: the influence on the artistic life of capitalist
ical society. About the allocation of a cadre of our own artists
the letariat then, of course, had nothing and thought’: economic
exploitation, on the one hand, low cultural level, on the other—
created a situation in which the proletariat aesthetically, in its own way
tastes, was in complete slavery to the bourgeois and petty-bourgeois
traditions. Therefore, at that time it was possible to assume
conscious influence on the evolution of art is completely impossible.
possible. There was an impact, but it was done for the working class
unconsciously.

Acute forms of class struggle, which took an open and
of the entire society, a sharply palpable character, desperate poverty and horror
new conditions of physical labor began to increasingly attract
attention of intermediate social groups and, above all. intellect
Ligence. Utopian socialism grew and took shape, uniting
heterogeneous social elements with their ideas. Problems of general
spiritual harmony have become extremely popular, dozens of bold
experimenters tried to immediately realize these dreams on
practice, it seemed to them that good will and conviction were enough
to realize the socialist ideal.

Utopian socialism captured the circle of its ideas and artists
cov. The largest of them, undoubtedly, was the Englishman William

Morrie.
No. 8 isvastvo 129

Morris was a utopian socialist. He fought for interests
of the working class both politically and theoretically, but most of all it
was occupied by the thought of socialist art. In a number of articles,
in his books, Morris attacked capitalist society,
in which productive work was not a joy, but a torment.
Labor-creativity, this is the main idea of ​​Morris; but do the work
creativity,” he reasoned, “means creating things in such a way
what kind of person would like to have them, i.e. beautiful things - that means
merge work with art. Morris sharply criticized the cliched,
inappropriate, pretentious formsbourgeois life, he spoke about
its disharmony, the need to build expedient beauty,
beauty in life, and not outside of it, But, being a typical bourgeois
an artist, i.e. artist-craftsman, Morrie attributed
all the evils of capitalist relations are machine. Morris called back to
to the guild system, to the Middle Ages, which he imagined as social
paradise. Having begun the practical implementation of their plans,
Morris organized craft and art workshops. Absolutely
It is clear that there was no widespread production in them
perhaps; the craft could not compete with the factory's technology.
I had to move on to the production of rare items, items
luxury, i.e. radically reject the very idea of merging art with
life. Not only that; hating high technology, Morris could hardly
to give it, at least in the field of external forms; instead, he
studied medieval and Renaissance forms, dealt with the surface
decorating things, making carpets, etc. After a while
time his workshops degenerated into a stamped school of applied
goodness.

Morris's entire plan was petty-bourgeois and reactionary-utopian:
the car won and could not help but win.

xx $ *f

Much later; when the proletariat created its gigantic
class organizations, when these organizations acquired their own
buildings, when, consequently, problems of organization arose
proletarian life, the question about the art of production floated
again. This time the first place was taken by the Bolgians - Destre and
Vandervelde.

If previously the problem was brought from outside, if then it
remained even unknown to the working class, now it has arisen
within the work organization. It was taken up by the party, the union of workers
cooperatives, trade unions. But even here the proletariat turned out to be still a cult
tourno weak; the actual organizers were theorists and
artists of the intelligentsia who joined the ranks of the labor movement and

9
130 ose 1 No. 8

who took an opportunistic position in it (it is not without reason that Vandervelde
is one of the leaders of the Second International). Taskwas again
was decided according to the bourgeois template: bourgeois artists were invited
nicks, painted the walls with pictures, invented patterns and ornaments
cops - in other words, the same inorganic thing reigned supreme,
external decoration. Build new forms, make things, create
They didn’t even intend to provide a material way of life for the proletariat in Belgium.
The proletarianization of art meant its democratization, i.e.
widespread among working bourgeois artistic
ny works. They strived for aesthetic compromise like this
the same as for political compromise.
* *
No. `

Use of workers for bourgeois artistic purposes
widely practiced by the capitalists themselves. In order to restore
production of capital in those enterprises. where were they manufactured
things designed for the market aesthetic taste could not go
discontinuously, the same continuous reproduction was necessary
working artistic power. The intelligentsia was able to highlight
only singles; its artists came to the factory by chance and were ready
were at any moment to leave him. Meanwhile, the capitalist class
needed a permanent staff attached to production
butlers Such personnel, naturally, could only be recruited. from
proletariat. The bourgeoisie organized special artistic and industrial
military schools, where they were sent at the expense of enterprise owners
capable workers for 3-4 years; after this, graduates obliged
work at the relevant plant for a specific and very long-term
resident number of years.

It would seem that this path could lead to organic
style: the artist was part and parcel of the producer class. But this
only at first glance. The fact is that organizational functions
remained entirely in the hands of the bourgeoisie, while the workers were its blind
instruments - performers. In schools they learned applied
technique of bourgeois artists, and at the factory they were subordinated to market
interests of the capitalist.

This use of proletarians was especially widely practiced.
military forces in Germany during the war and revolution, when blocked
the bathroom bourgeoisie had to beat their powerful competitors
exquisite product quality. „German Manufacturing
The Union" set as its goal the esthotic qualifications of labor and
systematic organization of German products. When did it happen
revolution and labor problems came to the fore, the idea of pro-
production’ art was warmly supported by the workers’ parties
No. 8 ‚ tg gvo 131

(during the discussion in the Reichetag the center remained passive, the right
were against it, and the main defenders were the independents).
The initiator was still the bourgeois intelligentsia, the revolutionary
revolutionized by social catastrophe, and the solution to the issue is
It was all about applied arts. Subsequently, when workers
created their own artistic and production organization
tion, the “German Works Union” invited them to join
its ranks. However, the workers refused; they appear as a motive
said the following: “Union” is engaged in the manufacture of expensive, rare
things, the proletariat has nothing to do in the “Union”. Labor organization
was committed, instead, to producing a simple, economical and cheap
furniture that could serve the needs of the everyday proletarian
skogo life. But, since Stinnes's Germany does not allow
the worker's duty to use for his own purposes the high factory cost
water technology, insofar as the attempt of the German workers is doomed to
technical vegetation.

In Roesia, the October Revolution threw out the banner of the proletarian
art, the organizational centers of which were Proletkults.
At the same time, Proletkult workshops were serviced at the first
pores of old artists. They were considered recognized, understandable,
they were familiar to conservative aesthetic consciousness
workers, and young proletarian artists went to them for training.
It is clear that in the field of production art they were unable to give
workers nothing but inveterate bourgeois applied craftsmanship.
That is why the first declarations of the Russian Proletkults speak of
imprints, patterns, designs for fabricth and porcelain, etc. And only
Later Proletkults come to a complete break © “applied”
tradition.

9*
Sergey Malnev.

MUSIC IN THE LIGHT OF ECONOMIC MATERIALISM.
CHAPTER ABOUT RHYTHM.

The most common form of music, the most interesting for people
in its connection with socio-economic factors is rhythm.

Imitating the beginning of the 4th Gospel, Bülow declared: “In the beginning of everything
there was a rhythm." Despite the certain extravagance of his paradox,
It can be said without a doubt that rhythm is the most important
and the most vital of all elements of music. Yes and not only
music. Already some natural phenomena, such as: uniform fall
the sound of water drops, the sound of the sea surf - give us a certain rhythm -
mic drawing. Already Cicero noted that those falling in equal
The measured period of time of water drops gives a certain rhythm.
The Greek theorist Aristides rightly considers the impacts of bullets
sa, as a certain and strict rhythm. This absoluteness of rhythm is associated
called its origin for idealists with a divine beginning.
Plato (Timaeus 16) sees in rhythm a memory of the absolute, when
Artiet creates a number obedient to the law, to which God also obeyed
at the creation of the world.

For us, such statements can, of course, only have an
heological value, but other conclusions of Plato and Aristotle
about the origin and meaning of rhythm are also painful for us.
great interest.

Aristotle (Roeyea, p. 4; RoNisa, US, 5-7 and ProMeta, p. 920)
definitely makes the development of rhythm in music and dance dependent
from the rhythmic movements of certain works.

Based on similar considerations, Plato (Prophasog, p. 326)
insists on introducing rhythm and harmony into the soul of every young man,
what is primarily necessary for the development of oratorical talent and
trading abilities. Indeed, in classical Greece
the connection between the rhythm of work and the rhythm of the music of the theater was clearly recognized
tra, and the Athenian orator of the time of Pericles, without arousing laughter, could
address your listeners, calling them your fellow dancers.
But with the passage of timeOver time, this connection becomes less and less noticeable.
In the Hellenistic era, with the penetration of eastern cults into Greece,
dance and music are increasingly turning to the service of religion.
No. 8 implementation 133

Religion itself sheds its anthropomorphic shell and
is wrapped in mystical layers, and already Lucian in his own
writing about dance is mainly concerned with the old Orphic
Eros, which initially brought order to chaos and then brought it into
moving streams of stars.

But the main considerations of Greek thought about the connection between the rhythm of music and
ki and dance with rhythmic work were still not forgotten, and in vaca-
le 20th century prof. Wallaszek (Rei Shue Taz) and prof. Bucher (Apey
Tsva Reese) came up with theories about the direct origin
music from rhythmic work, which are largely responsible
they look forward to our constructions. |

If we observe in parallel the action of acute-rhythmic
music on a savage and a cultured person, we note that the first
will react to it with external manifestations much more intensely,
than the second one.

This fact is explained by two reasons: the first is that
the savage is not constrained by clothing, which impedes a number of movements in the cultured
tour person; the second is that the physiological effect of rhythm,
so to speak, inversely proportional to the degree of mental development
person.

The last analogy is especially important and explains
us why the music of primitive peoples is expressed in strictly rhythmic
mic constructions, and melody and harmony have almost no
no meaning, whereas cultural peoples have strictly metric
forms, such as marches and dances in general, belong to the lower class
art and are replaced in creativity by the form of sonata, etc. p.

As for primitive peoples, they are extremely susceptible
are influenced by rhythmic music, and already in the 15th century African
The Chinese traveler Mainers notes that among African blacks
walking, dancing, games, singing, work are performed in metric sizes
measures, and that the most undeveloped blacks grasp the rhythm better than ours
soldiers and even manymany specialist musicians.

It is further necessary to point out some conditions’ social
economic order, which will help us understand the origin
meter and rhythm in music and, in particular, work song.

number of moments that determine the origin of the latter,
It is necessary to note the absence among primitive peoples: first, tools
cops and secondly, production techniques.

In order to build a home, make a boat, weapons,
household utensils or even pieces of jewelry to which savages
have such a great tendency, they need to replace the absence
tools near multiple parts of the body, arms and legs.

67
134 A 4 V. No. 8

The savage does not know technology. He makes up for what he lacks in patience.
and consistency. Stanley states that in some parts of Africa
The reason for polygamy is the extraordinary severity of the work performed.
employed by women

In Guinea, some natives wear small top hats around their necks.
made of stone, which must be polished due to constant friction. For
The end of the process requires the efforts of two generations. It is clear that the only
The essential condition for successful work will be constant and uniform
repeated repetition of the necessary movements.

Driven by instinct and habit to avoid wasting time
and unnecessary expenditure of force, a person working without tools,
will try to make uniform movements as much as possible
at equal intervals.

Gradually the work becomes more and more rhythmic
character, and Combarier gives excerpts from the general report
French colonies for the exhibition of 1900, which positively states
that in Madagascar there are women's movements preparing the ground for
sowing rice, exactly correspond to ballet dancing, and that the movements
a grain sower in Tunisia, scattering grain on arable land, is strictly worn
metric character. The last statement can easily be
This was true when we observed an experienced peasant sowing a field.

Moreover, these movements, regulated by muscle tension and
replacing it with a state of rest, are completely similar to clock
divisionswith its strong and weak times.

The most metric sizes are quite consistent with certain
types of work. Iambic and trocheus are nothing more than the rhythm of the feet striking
when walking on the ground. Spondee is a rhythm of uniform hand strokes. Dactyl
and anapest—rhythms of hammer blows during the work of a mason, when
The fighter makes two preparatory weak blows before a strong blow.
There is information about the last rhythmic beats among French blacksmiths.
even a special definition: “to make the hammer sing.”

The rhythmic beginning of work, which we considered in relation to
approach to individual work becomes even more important
when working as a maesovaya.

Here rhythm is no longer a convenience, but a necessity. Accepted and 00-
the observed rhythmic efforts and pauses are unconditional demands
efforts to achieve a common goal.

But with the overall work, the strength of individual participants, and even the moral
energy are not the same, and the question of their unification is
issue of labor discipline.

The latter is a necessary condition for the success of the entire
work, and the best means of carrying it out is rhythm
ical work song.
No. 8 hundred in about, 135

In materials on the survey of the woodworking industry
East Prussia, published in Danzig in 1905 (p. 62 et al.) we
we find extremely interesting indications that the results achieved
bent while working to the sounds of a song, significantly exceeded
the results of work done without songs.

Similar instructions can be found in questionnaires published by Paris
Sky Museum of Social Sciences in 1906

The materials on this issue are almost limitless, and one can
one can only be surprised that they have remained in Russian literature to this day
completely unlit.

I would like to give here just one excerpt from the work
Verneuil "Gal shazua am Zeves | 4apz 'Ayie Seshkhgae". She touches
songs of black divers while cleaning the keels of ships
from sand:

“Imagine about 500 blacks floating around a ship
and singing a certain tune. On the eighth beat they all dive
and continue to mentally follow the tunein the depths of the sea. On
At beat 12, they unanimously push the ship up and at beat 16 they appear
on the surface of the water."

It should be further noted that during difficult joint work,
requiring significant voltage, elements of sound parts
songs appear under the following circumstances:

Physiologically it has been established that with strong physical stress
In tension, a person’s thoraco-abdominal barrier is stretched, preventing
breathing rushes out, and the tongue sinks into the larynx. At the same time
there are so-called aspiration exhalations, completely
involuntary, which are accompanied by sounds. These sounds are
fall with the moment of highest voltage and, therefore, ©
the emphasis of the overall rhythmic work. Gradually both moments coincide
fall and give a working song, first. without words, such as
many Finnish songs, and then with words, but at the same time in strong
in rhythmic ulars, words are replaced by an interjection, for example, russian
skoe “Hey, let’s whoop”, which remind us of our aspiration
origin.

At the same time, to indicate a strong moment of rhythmic
work, musical instruments may be used. We know
that the Malays row ‘to the sound of tom-toms, in Sudan and China many
works are performed to the sounds of a vestibule. Afterlife examples are completely
are absolutely inexhaustible, and those who want to familiarize themselves with them in detail
I refer you to the ethnographic publications of the Paris Social
Museum and Berlin Ethnographic Society.

“But here the correspondence of my provisions with the theory ends
Wallaschek-Bücher. I am ready to assert, at the same time, the main meaning

$8
136 o. m No. 8

the rhythm of the work for the origin of the work song, but with an adjustment
history should have a provision according to which work with it
rhythm gives music meter, which in modern art expresses
through the beat. Musical rhythm does not always coincide with metrical rhythm
clock division, and sometimes contradicts it. `

For a final clarification of the situation, a small
historical excursion.

The first stage in the development of music will be the work song. Shestrictly
is metrical, and its accents, often expressed by interjections, fall
always on strong takt time. At first, a working song without words, but
further stages of development will be, on the one hand, the inclusion
into a song of words and secondly, rhythmic gestures. In the latter case
the music begins to take the form of a game-dance.

Left and gesture introduce new rhythmic elements into the music,
no longer coinciding with the previous strict metricity. Word in a song
requires rhythm that goes beyond the tasks of declamation, and gesture and dance
are subject to laws governing both temporary and temporary
travel relationships.

With the development of the vanish world of economic and social relations
and the establishment of religion by the state, the latter takes for its
cult singing and dancing and combines them in its ceremonies. But antique
ny theorists (Aristoxenus, Aristides) strictly distinguished the rhythm of melos
from rhythmic division, and developed a very subtle doctrine of rhythm
The mic unit of art is “SVgopos rgo03”.

We know that, due to the destruction of previous economic and
social relations, the ancient world was replaced by Christian
quality The latter, declaring the decisive superiority of the soul over the body,
carefully expelled from the area of religious worship everything that had
attitude towards dance.

Thus, medieval Christian music developed
solely influenced by the rhythmic demands put forward
text. Dance with its own rhythmic laws, expelled from
church, passed into the masses and united with folk song.
And if we compare the melodic cantilena of the church, which developed
influenced by the rhythm of the word, with a folk melody that also reflected
rhythm of the gesture, we will notice a significant difference not only in tempo,
but also in the rhythmic structure of the periods that in folk songs
always accompanied by symmetrical cadences, so good
corresponding to the dance. With the collapse of the feudal-medieval system and
exclusive domination of the church, new music sought to
to understand both flows, but having poorly understood their peculiar rhythmic
laws forforged music into the armor of meter-beat, which, despite
many efforts still cannot be removed from her living body.
No. 8 ssstvo 137

From the above brief historical diagram it follows that,
having updated the origin of the metrical foundations of music from the work, we
must connect the further development of musical rhythm with other
social factors, namely, with church tradition and its
rhythm of the sung word and social games, dancing with their
the rhythm of the gesture.

69
Nlldssovldya

— FIGHT

L. Geller.

PROLETARIAT AND FASCISM.

From the imperial war of 1914-1918. both the bourgeoisie and
The workers' clave were not the same as they were before the war. th

{the last decade of the 19th and the first decade of the 20th century were
or the heyday of capitalism. True, even then the periods are washed-
The long rise was followed by periods of depression, decline, and stagnation. But
the capitalist pre-war economy could be overcome without much difficulty
overcame these crises, steadily expanding the economy after each
living crisis. Neto—after the war: The war destroyed so many beams
lives, so many material values, so undermined
the very foundations of the capitalist economy, so destroyed
connections between different countries that the restoration of economic
life on the same principles, i.e. within the framework of the capitalist system, -
the bourgeoisie is unable to do so. She feels it herself and
Mu lost her former calm and self-control and, like an enraged
beast, rushes about in search of environments that would help her
drink the bourgeois system and delay the progress of the impending social
revolution.

The lessons of the war and the post-war economy were not in vain for
world proletariat. The World War was, as is well known,
unlike most previous wars, the struggle was not between armies, but between peoples. Not-
it was necessary to involve the popular masses in a war that took such
unheard of sizes and lasting for years. And the bourgeoisie is not thirsty
sought means to draw in workers with promises and outright deception
and peasants in this “last” war. Through the press—ddtens and hundreds
millions of newspaper sheets poured lies on the people every day -
large masses who were called upon to defend law, justice,
culture, freedom, fatherland. The school, the church,
theater, cinema and, perhaps most of all, treacherous leaders
P International and professional movement. The bourgeoisie then
did not skimp on promises. Through the mouth of Lloyd George in England, Millier
wound in France, Bethmann-Hollwega in Germany, the bourgeoisie and its ancestors
governments in all the warring countries never tired of declaring that this
the last war, that it is being waged in the name of good and justice, in
the interests of the peoples themselves; that at the end of this “last” war
workers and peasants will return to their homes not in the same conditions,
149 rub. 2 No. 8

not the stepsons of the homeland, but its beloved sons, for whom the homeland
will do everything to make their life free and happy.
Both workers and peasants succumbed to deception, believed, and fought for
homeland, covering the vast plains of Europe and Asia with their bodies.
But now the war is over. The armies demobilized. Tens of millions
workers and peasants after four years of war and wild trench life
returned to themselves, to a peaceful life. They found this promised house
heaven? The deception had an immediate effect. The bourgeoisie showed its true colors.
Not only in the defeated countries, but also in the victorious countries,
like England, France, Italy, peasants and workers, instead of what was promised
paradise, they found ruined farms, sick from malnutrition and over-
family work and a sharp deterioration in general living conditions. Ra-
disappointment, embitterment, indignation of those who have seen the light and understood the misunderstandings
The deception of the working and peasant masses knew no bounds. This
the former workers of the pre-war period, the heyday, were no longer
capitalism, when the bourgeoisie felt like the boss of the situation,
and the workers, as a result of tireless struggle, received crumbs of the master's
table.

It was during the war that tens of millions of workers and peasants
participating in it, more and more clearly than ever before,
felt withhowl strength and significance in the state and, having returned © to
lei of the battle, presented for payment those bills that the bore-
juisie, and sharply, revolutionaryly raised the question of the implementation of the given
new promises. And the first year and a half that passed after graduation
war—the end of 1918, all of 1919 and the beginning of 1920—it was time
rapid growth of working class organizations, a time when mass
strikes swept across Europe in a wave, a time when all
the bourgeois world was shaking under the blows of the rapidly advancing
world proletariat. October Revolution in Russia, revolution
in Austria, Germany, Hungary, Bavaria - swept over the confused
bourgeois world, and him. the near end of the case is inevitable. But
That’s not what happened: he was saved by the betrayal of the compromise leaders and...
fascism.

What is this fascism? What is its meaning and significance?

This can be answered briefly: fascism is a special organization
nization created by capital within the framework of the legal state for
struggle by all sorts of - and most of all illegal - means against the workers
class, to fight the impending social revolution. In this
feature of fascism: the bourgeoisie, which in words always stands for
order and legality - of course, for the bourgeois price that is beneficial to her
order and legality - protected by all civil and military apparatus -
rath of the state—in our revolutionary era it turned out to be forced
expected to resort to measures and means that violate its own
No. 8 CLASS STRUGGLE. 143

laws. Since it is not always convenient and possible for the state to produce
carry out gang attacks, torture and kill unarmed workers
and peasants, the bourgeoisie had to resort to creating a special
organization that does not have a state character, but is sub-
maintained by the state with everything it needs.

Let's see how things happened in the “classical” country of fa-
Schism, in Italy.

Italy is one of the countries that won the imperialist war.
And yet the war brought nothing but ruin and ruin to the broad masses of Italy.
suffering: rising taxes, a terrible rise in the cost of living,salary
Italy has neither its own coal, nor its own iron, nor
own oil. Artificially created and greatly swollen for
during the war, military industry during the transfer of the country's economy
on peaceful tracks has sharply decreased. Unemployment took everything
large sizes. Not only in the ranks of the proletariat but also among the poor
peasantry and urban small towns, discontent and bitterness reigned
what a shame. The fruits of the “victorious” war were felt.
And as a result, the years following the end of the war were marked
caused by a wave of mass strikes, both in industry and in
agriculture, and the enormous growth of the professional movement
and the socialist party (the Communist Party of Italy formed
was called only in 1921). Not in any Western European country
our October Revolution did not meet with such enthusiasm as
precisely among the broad working masses of Italy. In the summer of 1920 the revolutionary
national upsurge reaches its highest point: striking workers, not
having fought from the capitalists to satisfy their demands, in
a number of cities, such as Turin, Milan and many others. others, began to occupy
factories and factories, thus passing into the hands of the workers,
who set up production on a new basis. Villagers did the same
economic workers with large landowner estates. Bur-
The juisie was scared to death: the state did not protect it well,
was helpless; the army was unreliable; police in the face of shi-
The entire labor movement was demoralized and inactive.
The Italian bourgeoisie saw its end approaching. But she was rescued
reformist leaders who convinced workers to leave the factories they occupied
riki and estates and rely on the promises of the government and capital
sheets, and fascism.

By that time, fascism was still a minor phenomenon. His
the creator was the renegade from socialism Benito Mussolini, who went over
at the beginning of the war in the camp of the ardent. nationalists-patriots, supporters
war. And at first, fascism acted only as a patriotic organization
nization, ‘demanding more for Italyher roles in international
politics and a larger piece when dividing the spoils after the victory. Trying
144 G. RON. No. 8

to accommodate the workers and peasants, fascism “at the dawn of youth”
even put forward such demands as the nationalization of land (“land
to the one who works on it”) etc. n. And he really succeeded
create peasant unions here and there (“Fascio” in Italian means
“v0yu3”—hence the name—fascism). In the cities in ranks—rare then—
fascism was carried out by elements who had not adapted to peaceful activities
after four years of trench life, as former officers, former con-
shopkeepers who could not find a place behind the counter due to unemployment,
former students who lost their taste for learning during the war and,
end, tramp elements from the ranks of the working class, incapable of
constant labor, and hunters to rob and profit. ‘

the rise of the revolutionary wave in the middle of the 20th year of the revolution
the frightened bourgeoisie and the weak Italian government, not seeing
similar support neither in the army nor in the police, turned their favor
great attention of the fascists. They began to widely support the fascists
stov and langs and weapons. Meanwhile, in the ranks of the fascist organization
nization, brightly counter-revolutionary
elements - sons of landowners, kulak peasantry, merchants, factories
edgings. So, according to official fascist statistics, in the fall of 1921
for approximately 150,000 members of the organization there were: merchants—
13,778 people, factory owners and factory owners—4,269, people of liberal pro-
professions (such as doctors, lawyers, etc.) - 9,981, government
employees - 7208, landowners 18,084. And from that moment on, the fascism of the organ-“
is reduced to military. leg and takes that bandit, counter-revolutionary
tional character, which remained with him.

1920 and 1921 were marked in Italy by an incessant
bloody terror against industrial and agricultural
workers. Having armored cars at our disposal,
cannons and machine guns provided to him by government agencies,
widely supplied with money by landowners and capitalists,—fascism
made his bandit raids: on defenseless villages, towns
and small towns of Italy, torturing and killing the most active
workers and revolutionaries, burning workers' clubs, editorial offices of social
istic newspapers, worker cooperatives, terrorizing the population and conquering
thus losing one rural district after another. Social
The party initially underestimated the significance of fascism, gave it expression
came into power, and then became afraid and, instead of fighting it,
entered into an agreement with him, which, of course, did not interfere with the Nazis
continue their “punitive” activities. And only the young com-
the Italian Munist Party and the revolutionary trade unions provided
heroic resistance to fascism. This is the resistance created
situation cost the Ktalyan proletariat hundreds of lives, their rays
revolutionaries, but they saved the honor and dignity of the Italian
No. 8 CLASS STRUGGLE. 145

proletariat and prevented fascism from establishing itself in large industries
ny centers. The village and small towns remained the base of fascism.
rural composition of the population.

Last October, fascism, as we know, came to power in
Italy. But the xgo techniques have not changed. Although Mussolini and his associates
experts never tire of talking about the nation, legality, national interests
sakh, about the interests of the national economy and production, which
stand above the interests of not only individuals, but also classes - in fact
all the activities of the fascist government are clearly class-based
new character: the standard of living of the working class is declining: in
on railway roads and from postal and telegraph workers, eight
hourly working day; benefits for disabled people are being cut;
agreements concluded between agricultural companies are deteriorating
workers and landowners, and at the same time they rain down like golden rain
privileges, bonuses, subeids for landowners, steamship owners,
bankers and the entire plutocracy.

But “fascism understands that through murder and destruction alone”
You can't hold on for long. If there is a force in Italy that inspires
fear is temporaryto the defeated fascism, then this is the proletariat of Italy,
with his revolutionary past, with his fighting spirit and readiness for
further struggle. Fascism is trying to take over the professional
new movement, creating, in contrast to class organizations, pro-’
letariat, their “national corporations”. Fascism rejects class
social struggle, and in his “national corporations”, along with the workers
not only the technicians, but also the pre-
receivers. These corporations are installed by force mainly in
small towns and villages; where the only thing left for the worker is either to
either go with the goal, or enroll in the corporation, after which o" receives
work, albeit under terrible conditions.

Fascist trade unions (national corporations)
currently have about 800,000 members. Of these, about
400,000 Christian agricultural workers and about 300,000 workers
workers and employees in state enterprises and institutions
(railroads, post and telegraph, communes, municipalities, etc.),
i.e. persons directly dependent on the government. Among the industrial
of the proletariat in large centers, the fascist professional
the movement has no support. And all the elections of recent times, having
our place in the largest enterprises in Turin, Milan, Venice,
Monfalcone et al. have shown that the vast majority of workers
despite the terror, violence and all kinds of tricks of the fascist
authorities and enterprise administrations, hostile to fascism. "Wow!
It seemed to be the celebration of the first of May. Fascist power draining special
decreed that the celebration of the first of May was prohibited, only a year ago

10

73
146 FROM MEASURE No. 8

the back of Fakt, recognized by the government as a national holiday.
Instead of the first of May, workers were invited to celebrate the wrong foundation
nia of Rome - April 21st. But even here it turned out that in Milan, Turin,
In Naples and a number of other cities, workers went on strike in droves
day of the first of May and, despite the vigilant supervision of the fascist no-
police, even managed to hoist the red banner of the mostoutstanding buildings of the largest centers. And this revolutionary you
the advance of the Italian proletariat cost victims: 20 people were killed
dead and many hundreds of wounded and arrested—these are the results of the fascist
activities on May Day. This is a revolutionary performance
of the Italian proletariat showed once again that fascism is alien and
hostile to the working masses, and that he failed to disorganize the
to call and poison the genuine labor movement of Italy,

Italian fascism found its imitation in other reflections.
nah. Nowhere can the bourgeoisie establish a post-war economy.
The army, police, courts, prisons turn out to be insufficient for
working class pressure. And everywhere the bourgeoisie is creating semi-legal
new or illegal fascist organizations. This is the case in
Germany, where fascism created a number of illegal in form, but
deeply penetrated into the entire state - civil and military -
apparatus and paramilitary organizations with great power, called
` vayusheyya ‘usually by the names of “leaders” (these are the organizations
Rosbach, Luttwitz, Ergart, Hitler, etc.). Fascism is stronger than ever
Bavaria with its kulak peasantry and poorly developed industrial
ness. |

In France, fascist organizations have an innocuous name
"civil unions", conceived as strike-breaking squads, but
increasingly shifting to a military footing. Close to them are the “free ones”
unions", "vomateni" and "tracistas" of Spain. Their ranks are growing
predominantly by right-wing elements of youth and officers. They
have already shown themselves to be a number of murders of the labor leaders of Spain.

We find similar organizations in Austria and Czechoslovakia,
where they, however, stand at the beginning of their development. Then she went along
this way is Finland ("shudskors"), where the fear of revolution
especially great, and Poland, where detachments of landowners’ sons and right-wing
students called themselves “fascist gangs.” They don't lag behind either
small states, distinguished by their special democracy, like
Switzerland and Norway. The Russian proletariat will not forget the bullets of the seamstresses
Tsar's fascist who defeated comrade.Thief. And little Norway
Lately it has been showing quite vigorous activity in
organization of fascist detachments. And this may not be so surprising.
Note: in Norway, as you know, the communist party is strong and influential.
ical party.
#8 CLASS WAR. 147

Fascism is also known outside European countries. Democratic
America has already created, with money from the largest industries, a relatively long time ago.
stov and banks gangster-Pinkerton organization bearing the name
"Ku Kluk Klan", which is extremely close in tasks and techniques to
fascism. This organization, which has existed for a long time, has strengthened
its activities since 1917, directing it mainly
against blacks. The fact is that in the imperialist war
there were about half a million blacks. This gave them the opportunity to get close
get acquainted with the European-American “civilization”, which does not increase
showed them respect for the “white brothers,” and on the other hand—increased
the consciousness of their own strength was strong in them. America's Ruling Classes
were sharply opposed to the black soldiers, fearing their “tre-
excitement." And this is what prompted the American bourgeoisie
strengthen the activities of the Ku Klux Klan organization and abandon its pro-
tive blacks, mainly those who defended the battlefields
"law and justice". But with food came appetite, and now
The Ku Klux Klan is just as willing to kill white workers as it is to kill colored workers.
Yes, by the way, he launched a persecution against all people of other faiths and foreigners.

The Japanese bourgeoisie, which follows in this regard, also does not react
the best European and American samples and also created
special fascist organization (“Kokusa-Kai”), having already noted
He continued his activities with a series of murders of revolutionary workers.

We see, therefore, that fascism has really acquired
international significance that it has become a dangerous weapon in the hands
bourgeoisie, which has thrown off the hypocritical mask of legality and democracy
and seeking to delay the onset of the social revolution and victory
working class, using the methods of fascism—the murder of the best workers
barrels and beyondspreading poison into the ranks of the working people themselves.

Fascism is not only clearly counter-revolutionary, but also anti-cult.
ren. Oya destroys political, professional and cooperative
organizations of the working class, disperses the broad working masses
and throws them back, as we see in the example of Italy, for many
years ago. Fascism is completely false, and this spirit of falsehood, work, pa-
local discipline ‘he tries to instill in peasants and workers
mass, entering into the closest possible connection with perkov, as
we see this in the same Italy, where Mussolini is looking for a kiss with
The Vatican, with the Pope. 3

Fascism in its cult of power, which it understands as naked
violence of a gangster, furious nature, poisons the entire
social atmosphere, press and literature, as can be seen in
the example of Italy, France and America, where literary training
fascism even preceded the appearance of fascists in political
sky arena.

10*

7
148 A: No. 8.

Although in most countries fascism is only emerging and making
his first steps, but his strength should not be underestimated or underestimated.
nive. It should not be forgotten that he has numerous ones everywhere.
supporters—among senior government officials and, 060-
especially in the army and police, that he has his own “pre-conscription conscripts” and
your “veevobuch”, in the form of huge frames of sports clubs and shooting
kovyh societies, which have a huge distribution in Europe and America
tion, and which fascism is successfully drawing into the sphere of
ru of its influence and even organization.

- The international proletariat appreciated this _ newest
a poisoned weapon in the hands of the bourgeoisie. The Comintern and Profintern led
the most energetic agitation against fascism, not only killing
the best workers, but trying to introduce poison and decay into his
its own ranks, everywhere, calls for armed resistance.
And already in Germany, Czechoslovakia and other countries they are beginning to form
proletarian self-defense units (“working hundreds”) are to be formed, and no
doubts that, despite the resistance not only of the bourgeoisie,
but also of conciliatory social democracy, this movement is widespread
will expand both in breadth and depth and will appear as the stronghold that was previously
or later the motley, self-contradictory,
banditek-counter-revolutionary organization, which is fascism.

CRITICISM
V. Pletnev.

WAYS OF PROLETARIAN POETRY.

(Experience in ideological analysis).

This topic may cause proletarian literary
ditch their old objection: “to indicate the path of proletarian literature-
ry"—this is—“forcing a writer to create by decree,” etc. d., it. p.

We believe that now, more than ever, it is necessary
serious and, we emphasize, clear and decisive criticism of modern
proletarian literature, and hence the definition of those paths along which
which she can go. Moreover, these paths, by the logic of revolution, are already
are now beginning to emerge with clarity that gives the right to speak
about them in rather firm tones. We are not thinking of writing “decrees”,
obliging the proletarian writer to create “this way” and “not that way”,
but, if this “decree” follows from the conditions of the development of the revolution, if
she has already said her word here, then let the proletarian writers applaud
rush to the revolution, and not to the critic who evaluates their past and
real paths and draw conclusions about their further direction.

Let's get straight to the topic:

Proletarian literature already has its own, albeit brief, history.
riya. She has gone through a number of distinct stages that are worthy, and this
One of our next tasks is to cover them consistently.

These stages are as follows; first—period before broad legal regulation—
democr. printing; the second is the period of the legal press, Zvezda, Pravda,
"Lucha", the third - the period of the February revolution, and then the October revolution,
with the withdrawal after October to the group opposing October.—
for example, Bibik from fiction writers, from critics Kubikov, etc. - and
the fourth, which is of most interest at the moment, is the period of no-
howl of economic policy.

The first period is characterized by the complete subordination of the proletarian |

poets based on the motives of Nikitin, Nekrasov, Nadson, Koltsov. Redko in
works of that time, motifs of class self-
consciousness of the poet - this is rather the poetry of denunciation capitalized, poetry
curses to him, poetry of awareness of work, his creative energy, than
poetry of struggle, poetry of attack.

The second period, coinciding by 1912 (Lena) with the general
the emergence of the political movement of the proletariat, is characterized by the fact that
the poet-roletarian of that time felt the power that he could

76

‚
153 AND No. 8

really lean on, and in his poetry there are already motifs of growing
strength, awareness of the inevitability of an imminent decisive struggle. Here
poets are already beginning to sharpen their creativity on a class basis, looking for other
forms, begin to look at poetry and their creativity as one
from class combat missions. This is the period of the poet’s awareness of himself as
necessary for the class of weapons, as a member of a unified army—“we”—proceed
of the collective and groping for the solid class foundations of their
creativity. The struggle of the class tempered the poet, forged him as a fighter; in
During this period, the organic growth of proletarian poetry kept pace with
political struggle of the proletariat and generally represents an exceptional
extremely interesting for studying the development of proletarian literature
tours moment.

The third period is the period of revolution.

And the fourth is the new economic policy.

Let us dwell on their consistent development.

Let's take, for example, the work of two poets - F. S. Shkuleva and
E. E. Nechaeva.

“What little poets, how pitiful is proletarian literature,
if...”—so they will say after reading these names. So be it!

The first, a textile worker, began his creative work in 1890.
(the first poem was published), i.e. has been in operation for 838 years; second-
roy—glassmaker—10 years earlier; first published poems
labeled 1880, works in literature for 43 years. The path is not small. B
at the time when these poets appeared in literature, the Russian tro-
The letariat is just emerging as a future revolutionary force.

And here are the songs Comrade Shkulev composed at this time:

lt; R.V No.

All holy, most precious
I beg you, good God,
Not labor is healthyYa, strength, let's go.

In my work I will forget about evil,

In my works I will remember the truth
And all your deeds.

Honest work gives joy to everyone,
He is alien to lies, evil and laughter.
Labor loves everything you love.
Rukh loves helping the oppressed
And thirsts for an inspired word
Light a fire in the dark."

Labor and God are the same essence. The poet feels this deeply. This is not
a song of struggle, it is a prayer. And it was written by Prol. Gariy, from the age of 10 he stood
hanging by the car. But, after all, this is not a proletarian work!
Varoch... let's not rush to conclusions. Next.
No. 3 CRITICISM. 153

“Honest work heals wounds,
'A pile of strength gives vigor,

The work itself, God blesses,
Labor in the world will survive everything.”

The poet does not yet realize that honest work gives, besides strength and vigor,
also the maximum of surplus value to the owner, which is “the right to le-
"nost" is the right of the proletarian. But he is convinced that labor will survive
everything in the world.

The poet writes the poem “Hrieto is Risen”:

“So we all, brothers, will give up evil and enmity,
Remembering that for, smaller brothers

Christ died on the cross, suffering,

And we will all stretch out our hands without exception

And, opening brotherly arms to each other,
Let us remember that the Son of God has risen for the world.”

Work, God, we are all brothers, brotherly hugs, to everyone without exception.
niya is what eliminates enmity, the struggle of human brothers between oo-
battle, the poet thinks. This is what Comrade Shkulev wrote in the nineties.
logo of the century. He sees a carpenter, a blacksmith, a weaver, a drayman, a tailor
nihu; he is attracted to all types of labor. He speaks with deep love
talks about them. :

And in 1908 we read something else from him:

“I didn’t come to ask you,

Don't give me bread, - '

After all, there are many of us like me -

We are all strong, you know that.

I'm not asking you for bread,

But consider me a beggar, -

I carry one thought in my mind -

Give me freedom." |

This is far from what the poet sang several years ago. "We
“everyone is strong” - this is not a prayer of a loner, this is already a voice of awareness
the strength of all, the strength of “we”, with one thought, not about God, but “Give us freedom”
(for now—give it”).

And in 1904 the poet shouts “to the singer”;

7"Hey, singer!
Swing and hit the strings
You strike like thunder from the azure,
We don’t need dreams, but storms.”

And after the revolution of 1905, “Blacksmiths” appeared. Who doesn't
I sang them at parties in Central Europe, in exile!
“We are blacksmiths, and our spirit is young,
We forge the keys to happiness...

Rise higher, heavy hammer,
“Knock harder on the steel chest.”

tr.
154 EE 3. No. 8

We are deeply convinced that 90°) of our party comrades,
who sang this song do not know that it was written by ours in 1904 and is now
Long live Comrade Shkulev. This, by the way, characterizes,
how little we know and appreciate your cultural growth
own class.

And in 1912 the poet writes the following lines:

"Choo, I hear a ringing! That's the sound of a nabal.
He invites us to the feast of spring,

All the distances are engulfed in glow,

And people of joy

And there’s a ringing in my heart”

There are no more prayerful and foggy moods here. Glow
the poet saw the struggle. And who knows that 1910 - 11 - 12 years were a rise
workers' movement, he will understand, of course, that the creative power of the poet
growing along with the class movement. His awareness of the tasks of struggle is growing,
standing in front of the class. |

1917, the year of revolution - a poet in the swarm. He is not afraid of struggle.
“All men are brothers” is gone. A new one has arrived:

“Volleys... Fight... Destruction...
Hot blood flow -

Good goals are achieved.
The east glows with a glow.

The edges of the past are broken,

There are no paths to the past.
Slave hand unchained
The chain links are broken."

Let these poems be weak, formally old, illiterate, if desired
tit, but don’t they mark the path of growth of the proletarian poet?

And in 1918, the poet directly called for a fight. He writes - “Anthem
rebels."

“In communism our happiness is,
We are the only creators of labor.”

And finally, during the NEP period, the old poet writes: “Anthem of the Young
communards."

Look what a thorny, long path the poet goes through. Isn't it
It is not in the process of his creativity that the poet realizes himself as a class
strength? In it he is freed from the shackles of the old, from God, love for
to everyone without exception; from prayer comes to struggle; in the spilled in
the fight of blood sees the guarantee of future happiness and calls for its builderI respond to labor, cruel, simple and everyday stress.

We propose to our communist comrades that
this will apply to many - to answer one question: you, now a com-
Dear communists, didn’t they go to church? And how long has it been
uh, her.
$; 4

m

No. 8 BRITKA. 155

Do you think this is a respectable occupation? The writer of these lines knows many
who had this, well, let's call it, habit. Why was this?
Comrade Nechaev in one of his poems dating back to 1897,
reveals it;
You whispered to me from the young dawn
 a lullaby over the unsteady waters,
Who taught “agu” to say,
Answer a smile with a smile."
Mama, from the cradle, © infancy. That's where it comes from.
And even with faith in a better afterlife. And in 1894 that de

Nechaev writes “Song of a Slave,” which contains the following lines:

“If I were not a cruel, downtrodden slave,
And a mighty fearless eagle,

I would fly into the heights from the suffocating darkness,

And about the ridge of the jagged rock

With a strong flap of outstretched wings

I would break the shameful prices.”

Comrade Nechaev goes through the same difficult path as Shkulev, from
faith in God to the realization of struggle.

In difficult times they acted like poets. But going with class
foot in foot, they were brought up in him and in his struggle, they grew up in
reflectors and active participants in his struggle, his achievements.

This suggests that the proletarian poet grows up because
a class grows, and he, as a particle of it, grows as aware

class tasks.

We took two of our old veterans, whose teachers
was herself. life of work, factory, factory, everyday life. Their teachers in poetry
formally there were - for Shkulev, for example, Zlatovratsky, Nadson,
Then they had nowhere else to get class ideological development
orbit: from a book, in a circle, in a trade union, in a party...

Let's take our poets, who came out already in the first ten years
anniversary of the twentieth century. Many of them, in addition to the plant, went through a solid
school of class struggle, spent time in circles, worked in the party,
visited the village. And their creativity differs sharply from the creativity
their predecessors. It's wider, bolder, ohoverwhelming. But I'll give them
creativity sometimes has anarchic-rebellious deviations, although soon
passing away - and in them we have poets of a class that has already gone beyond
the broad road of struggle and going to close and formidable class
battles. They demonstrate with their creativity the existence and thinking of the fly-by.
riata; in their creativity, especially the young ones, there are still motifs that
sharing them with their predecessors. But these are already representatives of the growing
class.

78
156 and d No. 8

Unfortunately, we have neither the space nor the time to analyze
step by step the work of poets and fiction writers of this period, but we
we know that in their work there is a picture of the life of the class: its painful
growth, liberation from the shackles of the old rattling on the body. worker
world, the epiphany of the new, the class's awareness of its power, the call
to unite forces, and—every mivut, tense anticipation of struggle
and readiness for it.

Let us remember the poems of this (pre-revolutionary) period - Samoytnik,
Sadofyev, Kirillov, Gerasimov, Berdnikov, Gastev and others. A lot
still in the old burp class, but overall he grew up to fight and in
in separate skirmishes with tsarism he tests, forges his strength,
In the galaxy of our poets a mass of potential energy accumulates,
and it is no wonder that the revolution, having freed this energy, gave us a stormy
flying poetry, full of the romance of struggle.

Let it be known to critics of proletarian literature that in
during this period, proletarian literature was often formally like this
the same as it is now. Grandiose images, planetary
generalizations are most characteristic of her at this time.

“We are countless, formidable legions of labor.”...
“Here he is, the savior, the ruler of the earth,
Lord of the titanic forces...

This is how Kirillov sang. And we were surprised, applauded, greetings -
get out,

And who would even think of protesting against such

at least, the words of Cyrillic “We”:
“We are the countless, formidable legions of trul.
We have conquered the spaces of seas, oceans and land.
We lit up the cities with the light of artificial faces,
Our “horde souls” are burning with the fire of uprisings.

Didn't this correspond to the powerfully unfolding fighting will of Claes?
It was like that. The poet gave the sum of this will, its figurative expression,
and this gave his people enormous revolutionary power,

Screams... Alarm... footsteps... machine guns... guns... bayonets...

came out... Revolted... red factories... outskirts... neighborhoods...
Barracks... fleet... angry rebel teams, regiments...
The bright scarlet canvases rose high and glowed...

There is no coherent, melodious speech, the words jump, rush, fly... And this
militant romantic takeoff full of proletarian artistic
word in front of the revolution.

Weren’t the Veses Mayes at those moments one single wave of etralin?
Who would even think of analyzing their everyday, individual
doozles, group moods? . a

Ch'.

ao M le.

No. 8 CRITICISM. 157

In battle! Here you don’t feel like something is biting you
household louse. And during this period the proletarian poets fulfilled their
historic mission with honor.

But here it is necessary to focus attention.

The overthrow of the police regime in February and the bourgeoisie in October
re-posed the poet to the lack of ideological resistance.
The barricade and civil war fronts were a huge source
heroic-romantic poetry of proletarian artists. Before
the poet, a struggle of grandiose scope unfolded: The struggle
open, with weapons in hand. Psychology of strength, tension, blood
the way victory was achieved, the psychology of direct struggle—,
covered everything. Everyday life, small details of life, rough questions,
far from romantic, the construction of a new economy and social
ties that arose after the end of the civil war, issues
ideologies in the strict sense of the word—found even more poets
in full combat gear.

The proletarian poet, by inertia, was full of inexhaustible combat
energy. But the revolution continued on its logical path. Needed
was to build an economy, build a state apparatus, establish
to lead a more or less normal course of life.

And here the psychology of a front-line soldier, a soldier, encountered new
elements for him. There’s an attack, here there’s a cold “tso octamka”
economicesky calculation, dictated by the formidable and
the stubborn grip of economic ruin. Move these vices apart, donkey
It was impossible to beat their pressure with an attack, a quick blow. Their
it was necessary to break it with slow, persistent, methodical successes.
ramie, accumulating energy drop by drop, conquering step by step
position by position. There was a lot in this fierce struggle
heroism, there were extremely many innumerable feats,
intermittent devilish tension of nerves it was necessary to bear this
great job. There was very little romanticism here, there was nothing
get drunk. Delight at the 1%) increase in spinning production
factories are a thing that proletarian poets were still able to experience
unable to. It was too small compared to the stormy
a wave of offensive in Siberia against Kolchak, or against Denikin
and Wrangel in the south. And yet, this 1°/ has become prevalent!
From him the development of the revolution, the accuracy of its progress was assessed.
new movement, the time has come for the mathematics of revolution. Through dry
formula for statistical calculations, world issues have already been resolved
revolution. Coal, oil, firewood, Shaturskaya station, tractor
plows, and even sickles and scythes, cotton, wool, flax, labor diet
plina, increased production—that’s what came forward, imperiously demanding
solid, undying attention to oneself.

79
158 after No. 8

The battle holiday of the revolution has passed, its everyday life has begun,
what a “dirty job”.

But for the proletarian poet his driving force was still
romance of the barricades and the front.

And it is natural that proletarian poetry at this time was
was considered by many as an abstract romance, no longer responding
the immediate tasks of the revolution.

° Nearby, the simplest, most unattractive life lived,
colored by the exorbitant pressure of need. She bared her teeth with all her
destruction by teeth. But the proletarian poet somehow failed to become equal
with life. He did not think about what suddenly unfolded for him.
moose around.

He is not used to analyzing the most complex public issues,
A romantic is not an analyst, a romantic is not politicalik. From there. takes its toll
the beginning of the crisis of proletarian poetry. Oya revealed himself partly in deviation
to formal issues of art, this became closer to the poet and gave
there is more personal satisfaction for him.

And the proletarian poet led the struggle for his existence, as
artist, and this could not but become negative for him,
and for some fatal, because flesh of flesh and bone of
bones of the revolution, the proletarian poet felt some kind of
a force pressing on him every day from all corners. Power, kvar
shooting gallery, lack of paper, etc., etc.—the poet’s thoughts were gone too far from
society into yourself, into your circle. He wanted to remain a romantic Barry
Kady and the front, and life demanded from him an answer to narrow everyday,
but the most important issues of today. .

In this whole process, the proletarian poet continued to see
in front of me, directed against the revolution, is the shine of steel weapons,
the roar of exploding enemy shells, but barely noticed
audible growing malicious ringing of gold currency coins, not
then noted, “that thought is one of the most powerful weapons against
action::\ ›’ class, began to enter the silent battlefields,
didn’t notice that the ideology of the bourgeoisie becomes a weapon in its hands
today, And here, if he noticed it, he made a big
mistake, mistook Nepach's face for the true essence of things, a showcase
store for the basics, binding for the book. And, of course, I read the wrong thing
what history has written.

And with the thin, sharply honed weapon of bourgeois thought, he
I have never had to face each other in the process of revolution. But the swords
crossed precisely on this position, and here the bourgeoisie made
his first leap into the offensive along the line of ideological struggle.

This became absolutely clear when the logic of the struggle led to
to a new economic policy.

Mr. EVIL

you Mama dv:
No. 8 CRITICISM. 159

NEP hit the proletarian poet hard. Oya thought I was revolutionizing
tion will march in a mighty ceremonial march across the bridgeheads of the world,
and, instead, he saw a bourgeois crawling out and shaking himself off,
keeping his belly... andsome belongings.

And this bourgeois more than surprised the proletarian poet. Appeared
He had never expected this character’s appearance, and therefore he was surprised, and, it is necessary
I must say I was very surprised.

This is the result of this surprise.

Let us dwell on the verses of the publication of the All-Russian Association
Proletarian Writers,” which, according to the sign, was supposed to be a mouthpiece
rum of proletarian literature.

“Sails” Vl. Virillov, familiar to us by his completely different character:
boor in the collection “Iron Messiah”, etc.

This is what he writes in “Parueakh”:

“It was evening, like evening. The engines were screaming.
And the stars completed their ancient journey.
People were walking. Laughed: Had conversations,
It was the month of June. Nineteenth year.

Houses, like onlookers, overwhelmed by the crush,
They crowded together, giving way to the hunchbacked Tverskaya.
Near a dusty square where the grass is stunted—
'The yearning Pushkin hung his head.

Dreamers dreamed of magnificent castles.

The young men's bodies swelled sweetly,

The males cocked, the females cackled,

Forgetting both work and deeds for a while.

Everything was so clear—no need for clues—
And the sky, and the stars, the crowd, and the poet.

Everything was decent, everything was in order.
It will continue to be so in a thousand years.”

Or another—“In the city park”:

“Dust stirred up by movement,
Smoothly trimmed maples,
Dreary everyday reality,
Annoyingly dull ringing...

In a smart jacket, in the ringing of spurs,
A rooster walks with a motley peahen,
Like a worn-out penny, conversation,
The elusive poison of the poison.

An old man, gnawed by melancholy,

And uncertainly, timidly

Dragging along, bending over a stick,

Thin, weak body.
Neither dream nor reality, melancholy delirium, -
Empty, dull languor.
0, is there really no more
No joy, no rapture?

80
160 RG OZE m. No. 8

0, city, city, evil vassal,

You look with a hundred-ringing laugh,
To this pathetic carnival

In a circle, enchanted for a century!“...

And one more thing - “My funeral”:

“I will die to the sound of trams
In a harsh stone dwelling,
Friends dragged in the morning
Me to a distant cemetery...

There is someone there, tormenting the ears,
With a heartfelt speech he will touch you,
And someone, a stranger or a friend,
She'll shed a tear out of stupidity,

And only me, invisible to everyone,
Filled with bitterness, vexation,We speak with mortal anguish, ›
I’ll quickly go outside the fence.”...

The poet was demagnetized. Motives burst in:
“There will be a gala in the future—in a thousand years.”
“Oh, city, city, evil vassal.”

And the essence is ekvern:
Neither dream nor reality—dreary delirium...

Where is this from? Has Kirillov ceased to be a proletarian poet? .

But the onset of the petty-bourgeois element was swift:
for the proletarian poet she thundered unexpectedly, and—the poet’s voice
trembled and sounded false notes.

Why? Precisely because the poet failed to fully comprehend
albeit unsightly, with clarity that the situation that confused him at the moment
there is only one stage of the revolution.

The poet did not understand that this is “not a dream, and not a reality, and not something...
boring nonsense”, but a certain expression of the relationship of forces of the revolutionary
tion and the forces opposing it at the moment.

In other words, the form of struggle has changed, but the struggle remains
fact. And the only thing is that the poet did not find his place in
this stage of the struggle.

This is an undoubted crisis in the proletarian village. He owes a lot
his wife was to teach him. Teach you to look sharply at your surroundings
smallest features, evaluate it, become interested in “little things”, analyze
approach everything around you technically, evaluate it correctly, and...
then recovery would be certain. But this is only Kirillov.
No. 8 CRITICISM. 161

Unfortunately, such motives are not unique to Kirillov.
Forge No. 8.

Poems by N. Poletaev.
"Let the wet sidewalks
Dragged in sparkles
Me with my longing.
The crowds will push
The flickering will swirl
Rain, glass, lights.
Better hang yourself in a row
Lantern,
To tear up the slimy dregs,
Than alone in the field
Spin the void."
Alone in the field, “turning around the emptiness” does not seduce, but in the city,
who had previously sung so loudly, also, apparently, the poet did not
sweet. But still he goes, although he says to the city:

Let him gorge himself
Stone face"

V. Alensandrovsky:
"Heavy paws of melancholy
They won’t catch the cry of despair, -
Sailors don't need lighthouses
We are setting off on long voyages.
In madness I will direct my brig,
I'll stun my soul on the deck;
My blood spattered verse
Notwill utter an evening complaint.
What I dreamed about yesterday - under the heel -
Is it possible to remember absurdities!
From today's fiery torments
Tomorrow menacing fortresses will grow...
Tomorrow there will be a crease at the lips
Fatal warming to the harbors.
No shelter on the shore
Condemned to eternity. swimming“...

Here there is melancholy. Where is she from? It turns out that “yesterday” was only a “dream”.
And that’s what I dreamed about... “how can one remember absurdities”? Firmly
it is said... the language has changed the poet. Clarity of speech was lost.

M. Gerasimov:

The boulevard lamp is swinging

My head

Gaping with unglazed wounds.

I see the damaged sun of May.

Clouds swarming moths of mists

It was exhausted by 7,
The gilding has faded... p

81
162 0: B: No. 8

The flags have peeled off
The crimson was eaten by frost and rust.”

And the poet shouts:

“They crushed my soul and body.
Enemies' foal neighs,
My nerves are exhausted and I’m laughing.”
(Gerasimov. “Black foam”).

Poeg felt his nerves, they were broken and cut up by the “enemies”
a roaring neigh." And yesterday I went into battle with the anthem of struggle and victory.

"The fall has sprouted
Vulgar stigma
Scorched by the past
On the foreheads."
("Black foam").

Poeg absolutely does not understand what revolutionary tactics are,
why it is necessary to retreat in order to win.

And, unfortunately, the tone makes the music, the poet’s illness deepens.

Electric poem, one of Gerasimov’s last works, bo-
ugly, strong thing. But... ideologically, if I may put it this way,
zitsya, electro-pantheistic thing built on moods
Hamsunov's captain Glan,

See: R.
“Loneliness and the forest.
I'm building a hut:
She is all filled with spring juices.
When I lie on old mosses,
Fermentation flows down on me
Seeps through the bark of my clothes;
I have the same intoxicating fermentation of juices. `
I have two friends with me -
Ax and gun.
And he’s calm.
Steel particles of the machine -
The soul of Zazola is present here.
Under the ray flowing through the branches,
noe smiles at me
And he nods in greeting:
You are not alone
You are not alone."

Then the poet wanders through the village and nature:

“Every morning from a nearby village
A girl comes to my hut.
...Her cheeks immediately filled up.”`

from the windeat with the poet,
“This current sprayed out of me.”
No. 8 CRITICISM. 163

Electrolove! She -

„I poured some electric juice
My salivary glands"

The poet installs a dynamo and electrifies the village.
“I work days and nights”...

Where does this electro-pantheism come from? And here's where it comes from.
Sorry for the long excerpts:

“The factory and the city are behind us,

The boiling of the struggle behind.

I know the April showers are swinging there,
Lickin' tongues
Kremlin wounds—splashes of metal,
Scars on walls and facades.

Convulsive shots do not squeal.
And zarvitsy.

And don't.

I believe differently.

To something else? What?

“My itchy pain
From separation it poured out,
I swallow spring in miles. and atmosphere."

What is the poet running from, “swallowing the weight and atmosphere” for miles?
The poet's answer is short and clear:

“So much old stuff is sprouting there
In cafes and boulevards,

Predatory faces swing in flocks
Above the tables

"Nal with girl's meat."

And the artist speaks with a very clear confession:

I set sail from them
Along the way, dawn.

Cut off from the factory

My anchors

Spin around

Whirl in the boiling of spring."

A respectable occupation! And then - the hut,

The poet ran away, “set sail” from them, from cafes and boulevards, they renounced
his anchors were poured from the factory. Let's write it down like that.

* *
#

Where do they originate and for what reasons in the proletarian
Do such motives burst into poetry?

This is an extremely serious question; it is far from easy to answer.
easy.

with

a
164 t: 0. m No. 8

They tried to explain it by approaching it from different ends.

So, for example, Comrade Dubovekoy in No. 30 of Pravda dated 10/1, in addition
it’s impossible to throw out one thing in the big feuilleton “On Proletarian Literature”
a very sensible remark, worth his entire article:

“We already have proletarian literature, if you look at it
her as one. from parts of the general process of development of the proletarian
ideology"

If proletarian literature already exists, as part of the general pro-
the process of development of proletarian ideology, otherwise it would not exist
cannot, then why not develop this position and show how
in this process, rat literature, in general, and pro-
letarian writer, in particular?

Comrade Oak Veil doesn't do this. AKA a mistake. Because it is.
the only right way.

On it we would have avoided many bitter and evil mistakes, right
hitting the proletarian writer and ourselves.

And only this analysis can provide clues to abnormalities.
“biases” of the span-literature, clarify their understanding and, moreover,
lay the foundation for proletarian artistic criticism.

Let's try to approach the question this way.

What is our proletarian writer now?

Is this an individual, a member of the proletarian collective, creatively
working in literature and having to satisfy the requirements
niyam some pre-drawn scheme?

Or is it something else? Rather, I think something else.

The proletarian writer is a class-historical phenomenon and
household. Class-historical because he does not appear from foam
marine, does not fall from the sky, but is born from the depths of its class and grows,
as can be seen from the above, parallel to its development; would-
this is because its cradle is proletarian life in everything
its diversity, with all its positive and negative
sides, the bourgeois conditions of everyday life, with one hundred
rona, and the collective life of the factory, the school of class struggle, with
the other, by being a proletarian on the sidelines or not on the sidelines of practical
national participation in solving combat missions of its class (trade union,
party) and his complete absorption in these tasks, or with the whole
next to the intermediate ones “little”, “slightly”, “slowly”, etc.

This is, first of all, a living person, dependent on those around him.
his conditions of life and everyday life.

But this is the assessment of the proletarian writer and the proletarian
literature and is completely overlooked.
a
c)

JA,

No. 8 CRITICISM. 165

In this sense, the remark of Comrade Krupskaya quoted by
Comrade Dubovekim:

“Not every proletarian is a bearer of the proletarian
ideologies, there are proletarians who are thoroughly imbued with petty-bourgeois
ideology. Proletarian origin alone is not enough, one must
the proletarian to become more aware of their class tasks.”

Holy truth. But one can ask; if not more proletarian
realized theirclass tasks, then is the proletariat transferred from this
does the proletarian become a proletarian? Of course not. Level
class consciousness quantitative and qualitative can testify
talk about the level of maturity of the class, and that’s all.

In the process of the Great Revolution, when the proletariat of Russia was resolved
carried out his great class tasks, weren’t there elements in him that
Shanetva? There were, many, there are now, and it stands before us - like a living thing.
phenomenon on our ideological front, as its weakest point.

What follows from this? Only one thing

The proletarian writer is first and foremost a product of his class,
regardless of whether he is currently a pure carrier
conscious class ideology.

A proletarian poet can be the bearer of a fully conscious
proletarian ideology, or may not be such, but at the same time
in the process of his class growth and artistic creativity
realize their class tasks and, through a series of breakdowns and deviations,
go to their real awareness.

Whence it follows that the proletarian (as such) writer becomes
turns to Takhov only when he clearly realizes his class
tasks? No where.

But it is absolutely clear that a proletarian writer can, through a professional
union, party, through all types of class struggle in which it involves -
sya, and through his creativity, parallel to the first, to realize his power

ous tasks as a member of the class, and hence as a writer and artist.

This is, perhaps, the significance of our proletarian literature,
that it, like other phenomena of the class struggle, albeit significantly
less than some of them, the growth of flights shows us
riat, as a class, aware of its combat class tasks in the struggle,
and with it and in it is the growth of his artist.

However, taking this approach, which in our opinion is entirely correct,
point of view, we still cannot avoid quite severe for our
proletwriters conclusions. :

Of course, there is no need to be afraid of this.

The coincidence of the aspirations of the masses with their spokesmen of the proletariat -
telami in pre-revolutionary and revolutionarythe period before the New Economic Policy was
undeniable. What was dictated, what explains the new,

85
166, And No. 8

the unusual mood of a number of our prominent fellow poets,
singers of the proletariat?

The fact that the sentiments expressed in the works are new
the above works of Kirillov, Gerasimov, etc., the essence of 6b0-
a painful phenomenon, there cannot be two opinions. Of course it's painful
new But is it possible that at the moment of the turning point of the revolution towards the NEP, these sentiments
were not inherent in the class? Weren't there two principles rushing through him,
the inertia of war communism and revolutionary endurance? Are we
did not experience an acute, albeit short-term, drop in energy
proletariat? Let's remember how we ground our teeth, seeing
indoor shops, cafes, the impudently open mouth of the NEP. Isn't it
did we even avoid going into these stores? It was painful, it was disgusting.
We realized the need for this, appreciated this enemy, and realized that
This is the enemy, how to fight him. Vetupili entered into a struggle based on ideology
ical front. There are many unclear paths, questions, unresolved
problems that can also be solved in the struggle. But the acute danger of this disease
gone, the crisis is over. The strong organism of the class endured it.

But then another question arises before you. Claes has recovered
coped with the disease. Well, what about the poet? Has he recovered or?..

After all, many proletarian poets in this most acute period
revolutions suffered no less than Kirillov. They, perhaps,
They didn’t print what they wrote. But we, after all, know this.

Is proletarian poetry being cured, has it coped with this
illness? Almost to the same extent as the class as a whole. This is it
its main thing is that it is both weak and strong, by the strength of the class.

But she, of course, suffered losses, and big ones - we’ll see what kind
further. For us there is no fundamental difference between the facts of death
comrade on the battle front, on the labor front or on the front
ideological. Let in the first two - physical death, in the other -
intellectual death. For the class, the last, perhaps still
more painful and painful.

Here we move into a somewhat different plane.

The poets of “Kuznitsa,” we are told, were carried away by the bourgeois form
and incomprehensible to the masses. Alliteration and planetarity - this distances
them from the proletariat. If it were only like this, there would be no trouble
would be so great.

Verhaeren and Whitman are also sometimes incomprehensible to the proletarian, but from
this is why great poets who revolutionize do not cease to be
mass.

Let's take the same Gerasimov.

What's the matter? Where is this poet’s undoubted and dangerous breakdown?

He, having accepted the idea of electrification in its expected scope, all
I have subordinated my recent creativity to this idea. Is this bad?
No. 8 HERITICS. 167

Of course not. Let it be understood by a few now, but later they will understand
many. Why sometimes, and often, a political leader can be
not immediately understood by everyone, but only by a few, developing the abandoned
them the idea, and the poet must be immediately understood by everyone?

Only one thing is necessary, and absolutely necessary, and that is
at least, the correspondence of the ideological content of creativity
proletarian poet with the creative will and ideology of his class
at every given moment. Here is the minimum. Maximum - in the future
awareness of class tasks and prospects.

The criterion of our proletarian artistic criticism is
There are two simple, clear provisions;

1) Since the fully proletarian artist gives a reflection
and the conceivable advancement of the being (everyday life and struggle) of the class?

2) Since the proletarian artist reflects and affirms
ideology and creative will of the proletariat as a class?

Since the work of the proletarian artist is largely or
satisfies these two provisions to a lesser extent, insofar as it
is a true representative of his class, its spokesman, its voice,
his creative power.

And in the works of Gerasimov and others, our attention was drawn to
What matters is not its formal complexity and incomprehensibility, not the degree of its
mastery, mastery of the latter is his and our plus, but
interested in something else.

These deviations, this undoubted infection with bourgeois ideology—
Is this the result of only a formal infatuation with bourgeois
literature?

If wethey agreed, it would be superficial
point of view.

The matter is much deeper and much more painful: the point is that
that, due to the conditions now unfolding, favorable
influenced by bourgeois culture, the comrades could not withstand the colossal
heavy pressure from bourgeois ideology and they gave in or are giving in.
This fact must be stated with all clarity, and not only
to state, but also to explain it. We must understand what facts
and conditions have an impact on the proletarian artistic word
negative influence, which of them we are capable of will be mechanically
we cannot eliminate which ones.

. First of all, you need to pay deepest and serious attention
to the level of dependence of the proletarian literary word on
bourgeois culture and but only formally, but mainly
ideologically. Then, you need to establish in what dependence on
Hodya is now proletarian literature from modern cultural
cojuncture, from the attitude of the state towards it, represented by its bodies,

©
and
168 E.R: No. No. 8

from the mass ratio. from the attitude of the party, etc. Then, you cannot leave
aside from the proletarian poets themselves. We need to determine everything
sharpness of the current cultural level of our proletarian artists.
And only then will we be able to tell our people, not just off the cuff, but seriously
poets some coherent critical word and show them the path
their creative work.

There is no doubt that bourgeois ideology as a whole
everyone. will have a stronger and stronger influence during the day,
especially on the youth - unless we intensify the fight against them.

You can, of course, enjoy yourself with the fact that we are a hundred de hats
its bourgeois ideology. But, seriously assessing the situation, we
must state that the pressure of bourgeois ideology in its purest form
its form and, what is more dangerous, under all kinds of protective colors—
does not decrease, but increases. Secondly: is it really so recently?
proletarian artists were not placed in an absurd position,
didn’t our party comrades chuckle: “Ah, proletarian
artist!“ RelThe situation was such that the proletarian artist was
in the position of a beggar in front of Ivan Nakiforovich, who spoke
to the beggar: “So why don’t you go, heavens, I’m not hitting you?” Hu-
The man of words was pushed into the far corner of the revolution. And it's not
was a random occurrence. Let's look back at the literature in which
This is how someone recently saw “the future of new Russian literature.”
Take “The Serapion Brothers,” “The Circle.” Didn't you run around with them?
Didn’t they give them primacy in front of our proletarian artists?
nicknames? Now this fog is beginning to pass, at least
They already understood, with the light but strong hand of Comrade. Trotsky, that the Serapions
It was only enough to reach a certain station, and then you have to reckon
with the fact that this is not at all the same horse that the revolution, at least in the form
Attachments, he may have for himself.

Of course, the one who says to the proletarian writer is right: if you
proletarian artist, then you exist for the class, in its interest
sah, and if you are drawn away from the class, maybe very
rich perspectives, or if you only feel strongly about personal
pain means you have forgotten how to feel the pain of the class. And here before
you - a huge risk of separation from your native class. But by pressing
To this end, it is necessary to emphasize with all poignancy that proletarian artists
nicknames are susceptible to certain influences not only because they
individually do not withstand, but also because in a certain.
moment the class, or rather the leading forces of the class, during the time of not supporting
live the artist, do not make it easier for him to cope with these
our influences.

And we had this. Ignoring the proletarian artist, with
condescending smile, has served us badly here
No. 8 CRITICISM. 169

service. Cry and create sour dampness about this, which
Of course, it shouldn’t, but it needs to be said so that in the future we will
finally learned to take the proletarian ideology more seriously
literature, in particular.

In addition, it is time to put an end to the “categorical imperial
tives" in relation to the proletariansto whom the artist, to whom so
Some critics are generous.

The sacramental word is “the proletarian artist must.”
He ‘owes nothing... to critics who personally establish
"should".

We set class objectives. But the revolution clearly showed
to us that the tasks that are outlined are one thing, and another thing—
objective conditions, depending on which these tasks are resolved
are wandering around. I would really like to come to socialism, well, let’s say, in the summer
1924, and meanwhile world imperialism lies in the way, with one
on the other hand, and on the other hand, the peasantry is not yet prepared for socialism-
new, and the question of the bow is raised.

The proletarian artist, like his class, must strive for
socialism, but this is not at all the “must” that is prescribed
to him every day by critics who forget the dialectics of the process.

It is necessary to establish a scientifically based criterion for treatment
tarian class artistic criticism, and - only then -
proper literature will receive its due assessment, and critics will
learn to approach it not from the point of view of individual “nature”
seems” or “don’t like”, “it’s clear” or “it’s not clear”, but they will have
under itself is a solid foundation of dialectical materialism in the application
change to the field of art, in general, and literature, in particular.

However, especially on this urgent and serious issue.
It requires a lot of hard work from everyone who values development.
our class proletarian literature.

We believe that this experience is ours—ideological analysis
proletarian poetry—cannot fail to provoke one or another discussion
nal Marxist response.

85
Um. Beskin.

ON THE THEATER FRONT.

It’s unlikely that anyone now has to prove that any artifice
art agitates, all art is class, all art is political

strictly; Everyone has learned this. Art is a social function, in its `

content and form determined by economic-political
conditions. From them. depends. In a class society, art is always
serves. Forced to serve, no matter what fictions of “freedom” are created.
fell.

For naethe formula of the so-called eti-
ical, subjective sociology, which says that history is driven by
a living, critically thinking person who freely sets his own
long-term goals. Of course, history is driven by a living personality. Undoubtedly.
But so that she sets goals for herself completely freely, from her “guts,”—
Let's argue here. This is a priestly fog. A fairy tale about a man, created by
nom in the image and likeness of God. The goals that a person sets for himself
are dictated by the entire totality of the forces surrounding him—the class environment
doi, upbringing, those relationships that develop under the influence
hiring methods for obtaining the environment for life. There's no way he can jump out of them
can't. And the freedom that seems to him is always directed towards the most
profitable (ideal of “happiness”) implementation of what is dictated by these
forces, these relationships. Therefore, freedom in a class society
there is always only a conscious need (Engelse). This is the scheme
which is based on the iron law of economics. In general,
Of course, this pattern is realized in a whole range of complex
ideological superstructures, often losing visible roots, but invariably
precisely from them growing.

From the cradle, a bourgeois child absorbs habits, acquires
captured by the economics of bourgeois prosperity. Proletarian child
shapes his consciousness by the economy of need. Each of them in mass
becomes the son of his class and spends his life in established (“eternal”
") political, economic and everyday forms - defends
interests of his class, be it a merchant of textiles or a
poet strumming the lyre."

That is why the artist-intellectual, ideologist of the bourgeois demo-
Kratichoskaya myeli with her “evobods”, so - sharahvuleya at the beginning of
revolution. He so absorbed this class (bourgeois) mysticism

m 2.
No. 8 CRITICISM. 171

freedoms, its religious fog that did not notice its true background
and thought proudly. self-confident, critically thinking person, “free”
setting itself certain goals.

When, in the heroic years of the revolution, everything had to be
make a bayonet on the Red Armyforge a rifle to repel the fierce
bitter enemies of the proletariat, he suddenly became offended: “What, art is on
order. agitation! Ah—freedom! Ah—apoliticality!

In “these days” he forgot about those exhibitions at which proudly beautiful
the portraits of merchants he painted on order were in decline, I forgot about that “Life
for the Tsar,” with which he “traditionally” opened the theater season,
forgot about the “Belgian marches” with which he campaigned even in
classical ballet, I forgot about Leovid Andreev, who praised before
heaven the courage of the Belgian king in the most vile play “The King,
law and freedom" (the name alone is worth it) and trembling, dying
with his hand writing a libel on the other side of the revolutionary barricade
"Satan's Diary". And much, much more was forgotten.

This was simply artistic sabotage, the same sabotage
like bank employees and other intelligentsia groups, because
all of them together, en masse, as a petty-bourgeois group, not
accepted immediately, did not immediately realize the October Revolution: ,

Now, at a distance of some perspective that gives
opportunity to summarize - all this only confirms the correctness
sociological point of view on art, “determining its course
development through the development of social forces” (Plekhanov). In translation
in the language of scientific terms, this means that art is
dimensional (i.e., determined by objective reasons, and not absolute
new freedom of artistic expression) social, (i.e.
class-political), function.

Having established this basic premise, let's try to figure it out
in some results of the past winter theater season.

* *
*

By seniority - Small.

What did the Maly Theater do? What is he even doing?

Lives.

We usually look back at the Maly Theater when we hear
definition:

— Realistic, “great realistic” theater.

In such a generalization of the entire historical path of the Maly Theater,
In other words, “realistic”, “great realistic”, -
undoubtedly an equally “great” mistake.

How can the Maly Gogol Theater be united in this understanding?and Maly Ostrovsky Theater? |

86
172 I E mr No. No. 8

First of all, what does realistic theater mean? Any theater
realistic. Only the realism of each time is different.

Is it “non-objective” painting or “non-objective” painting?
Isn’t the structure of modern theater realism? Realism. Isn't it futu-
rism" Marinetti, reflecting the industrial-industrial themes
pre-war Europe, was not the realism of its era? Was. Isn't it
the design of the two-tier stage of the Shakespeare Theater was not feasible
lism? There was, but only the realism of the 15th century.

The realism of Gogol and Shchepkin was the realism of the local, two-
Ryansk Rosemie. He was born in those days when the theater was a “thing”
were considered patriotic fanfare, soul-rending melodramas,
{like Ugolino devouring his children), and vaudeville, and “other things”
gil." When the expression of a nationality (and the people were depicted or
unusually stupid. or prospering under the care of the “good
master"), came down to a corduroy vest, a silk sundress, or
nightingales, like “otselich”, “uzhotka”, “tutochka”, “the other day”, etc.
The spectator-nobleman, driving up to the theater in a dormez (covered entrance-
they are still preserved in the Bolshoi and Maly theaters; in Maly
he is to the right of the current entrance), admired with pleasure
the people under his care (while the guilty coachman was beaten
around the block) or shed tears of tenderness over the suffering of the poor
"Countess Clara d'Auberville". The theater was moving away from everyday life, from the truth
in a hurry life. The master's nerves demanded that he be carried away from the
the excitement of life. "rest".

Crashing into the thick of this theater, Gogol in his formal
creativity feeds—is forced to feed—on the same juices, and,
Indeed, Gogol has no everyday life, he has the same vaudeville, joke
(cruel, “bad joke”), grotesque, caricatures. Kharya, mask.
Basically, eat it all. from the Moliere theater, from the theater of provisions and in-
trigs, from a trick, but not from psychology, as we understand it, not from
psychology of the “great realistic theater”.

What kind of psychology is there in the mayor - no, pure water
grotesque, svflickering headlight (it’s time to play “The Inspector General” like that!). But
Yueov in Oetroveky’s “Profitable Place”, he is already “taking” psychologically,
as in life, as in nature. Remember the scene in the tavern where he
reprimands the official for taking a bribe and not doing the job.
You have to take a bribe honestly - take it and do it. Otherwise, in non-
You'll still get there!

With the emergence (gradually) after the “collapse” of serfdom
arego of social relations of the new-bourgeois way of life of the Russian bourgeoisie
zii, - initially “grimy”, a. then he bought everything, including the gloss
European cylinder, the first and second merchant guilds, - popularly
We are waiting for the psychological and everyday theater, the Ostroveky theater, theatre,
No. 8 CRITICISM. 173

existing and to this day. But; since state power is
in the form of an unlimited police monarchy was still the power of the old
feudal-noble regime (historical stages are not cut off,
and grow one into the other), so naturally she slowed down
transition to the rails of urban commercial and industrial capitalism,
and this brake created a reaction in the 80s. During this transitional period,
when the old nobility had not yet left the scene, but differentiated
the elk, dissipated, in its own way “changed leadership” (“repentant
nobleman”), the Maly Theater “adapted”, and in the “Ostroveky Theater”
gave its “last flowering”.

By this time, a number of wonderful masters had been created and strengthened
psychological and everyday theater—Sadovsky, Ermolova, Lensky, Yuzhin,
Davydov, Gorev, Nikulina, Fedotova and others. But this “blooming” is about
should have been comparatively (on a historical scale “equally”)
not for long. Socio-economic changes are rapidly changing
saw the primary layer of bourgeois capitalism—“grimy”,
“The unknown country of Zamoskvorechye”, “Tit Titych”.

Other passions were already boiling around. Old Catechism Terms
citizenship were filled with new content. "Cherry"
garden" from Ranevskaya and Gaev was bought by the son of the "grimy" man, who managed to visit
“In Europe” Ermolai Lopakhin. I bought it without sentimentality - for rubles.
He set up a factory there, and for himselfdrooled on Arbat “luxury” coupe-
chic mansion. He started his own newspaper, magazine, and his own theater.

And Maly finds himself “outside life.”

In 1905, whitened with gray hair. but young with feeling, Alexander
Pavlovich Lensky makes an attempt to “rejuvenate” him. But this attempt
is immediately “stopped” by the watchful eye of the authorities, mainly
in which the “first of the nobles” still stands. The managers of the corpse-
Yuzhin is appointed. A certain kure is installed on
"traditions". The theater begins to live with memories of bygone days.

We approach phenomena objectively, with sociological analysis.
zom, and are not inclined to explain them by “evil” or “good” will. And go-
Rome—Maly Theatre, a huge page in the history of Russian theater,
now - “a living corpse.” The few remaining artisans will leave
this artel, and there is no Maly Theater. At Yuzhin, Ermolova, Leshkovskaya
there are no heirs because; that they don’t exist, and therefore. that they can't
be. Both Ostrovsky and the itinerant organization that supported him financially
estvo—already—Vagankovo Cemetery. That monument to Ostrovsky, the first
the stone of which the Russian proletariat recently laid at the entrance to
The Maly Theater will also be a monument to the Maly Theater; not tormented
the Russian revolution and the “barbarian Bolsheviks,” and “quietly in God’s hands”
deceased*.

19
174 o tu No. 8

You can take certain “heroic” steps, boar-
add caffeine or morphine - include one or another more modern,
than “Jokers”, a play in his repertoire, but on the whole, this is living
a poor organism, an organism deprived of nutrients. juices outside the walls

theater
#*
*

Since the 90s, the merchants, who had already emerged from the “dark” period
kingdom," begins to build an urban culture, a culture of frequent
pulsations, a culture of rapid turnover and time tracking (“time—day”
gi“). Clinics named after the Morozov merchant dynasty emerge,
University named after Shanyavsky, the huge Kyiv Polytechnic,
built at the expense of the sugar factory Tereshchenko, Tretyakovskaya
gallery, museum Shukin, Bakhrushin Theater Museum, etc.

Likewise, the theater, which hitherto remained in monopoly capitals,
Leahstill continuing to rule the autocratic noble bu-
rockracy, begins to gradually concentrate in the hands of the merchants,
bourgeoisie. The Mamontov private opera house appears in Moscow
in the building where the opera of another merchant, Zimin, later appeared).

’and Mamontov’s opera opens, by the way, Chaliapin in the
vocal field and Vrubel and Korovin in the decorative field.
In the village of Abramtsevo | eva Mamontova) are grouped around his “ea-
bosom" artists Vasnepov, Levitan, Polenov, Serov, Somov, Malya-
Vin, Milyutin, Golovin and others—future representatives of the industrial
urban modernism "World of Art". Wee they at this time
they work very well for merchant orders, specializing in knowledge
to a significant extent, in well-paid portraits of “merchants” and “0ob”,
- for example: Serov, Vaket; paint cathedrals, for example, Vasnetsov
and Nesterov. And this did not in the least diminish their “evo-
bodes of talent. And only later, when they are offered
work to order ‘revolution,’ they will suddenly become squeamish
platform "ninety" and. “apoliticality” of art.

At the same time, the bet on the bourgeoisie, which is characteristic of the bourgeoisie, begins
terms - “nation”, “nationalism”, “soul”, “beauty”, i.e. that com-
a complex of concepts that is included in the so-called oestheticism, such as
the mystical content of art, like its religious ecstasy.

This bourgeois “modernism” and its aesthetics have passed beyond
frontiers of the revolution. And now, in the NEP of 1923, we have “Peace
Art”, and “Union of Russian Artists”, and a shop (on Kuznetsky)
products from the village of Abramtsevo. I'm not talking about forgetting to die
"Cheredvizhniki".

At this pace of life of an industrial city and a monetary economy
In the late nineties, the artistic tvatr was born.

ah
No. 8 CRITICISM. 175

And it is no coincidence, of course, that it was headed by a representative
one of the largest merchant dynasties—Aleksevv, on stage
Stanaslavsky. At the same time, the director of the board of the factory
Ricky Alekseev, and a European-educated intellectual artist
Stakislavsky. .

Art Theater eis that form of bourgeois teztra which
paradise, as a type, directly came close to the calendar
edges of revolution. He is the ideologist of that economic liberalism,
that intellectual-democratic thought that reflected the aspirations
and desires for an industrial-town life. In the gravel class she would-
la is in opposition to the political foundations of the police autocracy,
which remained a relic of the noble-feudal era, with
its natural serf economy, and constrained the “freedom of capital.”
Hence, on the poster of the Art Theater there are plays with a liberal pro-
test against the extremes of autocracy: “Tsar Fedor”, “Vorie Godu-
new", "The Death of Ivan the Terrible", Otejuda - a long gallery of those
Khov's characters, who in a huge provincial outback
Russia eat, drink, sleep, reproduce and die, but who already
closely within this framework of patriarchal-philistine vegetation, and they
rushing “to Moscow.” From here - these dying “cherry orchards”, about
which “is written in the encyclopedic dictionary”, but which
will be much more expediently used for fuel or as
building material. From here come the Ranevskys and Gazvys, who
the last “tuplets in the corner”, the last balls on the billiards
life. Hence, finally, that eco-panic young Anya, who without
pain leaves the halls where “generals, barons, admirals danced,” and
with all the young heart goes towards the new life.

If between today and the Maly Theater, in its organiza-
nical being, there is a gap, an abyss, there is no inconsistency
touches, then the Art Theater is a social function,
ideological. superstructure of those political and economic forces, those
social relations “on the eve”, which are the dynamism of class
contradictions prepared the revolution.

There are no miracles. The Art Theater has suffered from all those
diseases that got sick and gave birth to him in due time
‘democratically intelligent thought.

From the first days of the revolution, his troupe found itself divided.
One part of it appeared immediately (depending on the circumstances)um, not from her
dependent) on the other side of the October barricade. And now it’s unlikely
It’s an accident that Grushpa, the older one, is out of bounds for a long time
RSFSR. It won’t be easy to pour them in when the “Americans” arrive.
with their “Uncle Vanyas” to the rejuvenated Art Theater. Not
so simple.

$8
176 D: No. 8

After all, it’s no secret that the Art Theater’s tour to Western
in Europe they passed far from under the sign of success that they
it seemed that this old company could count there...

I will quote a few lines from a review of “The Cherry Orchard”
Miliukov’s “Latest News” in Paris:

“A new revival,” says the newspaper, “will come when we
we will be able to look at “The Cherry Orchard” the way we would look at any
a work of art, and this new `look. will have to answer
and a new production, What can I say about the production of “The Cherry Orchard” in Hu-
Dogestvenny theatre, what’s new to add? A few sad words
from the same “The Cherry Orchard”: “how you have aged, how you have become ugly.”

Where next, even if for them, for those who support Milyukov
epigones of old Russia, “The Cherry Orchard” has grown old and dull.

If we talk about the frame, the fundamental frame of Art
artistic theater, perhaps it is there, abroad. Stubborn, quack-
thick, “protecting the entrances.” But if we went to the Art Theater
we will call the metropolis in Kamergerek, with its colonies-etudii,
We have the right to talk about another distinct process—a “change of milestones.”
This trend fully corresponds to the “emenovechism” of political and social
responsible, being its derivative. Acceptance of the revolution as a
living factor, revision of “traditions” from the angle of strict
tics, rejuvenation—these are his main theses...

The social: ideological shift is followed by a change in milestones in ma-
terial and artistic design, in the material organization of the epi-
taklya. # and ь "

The instigator at one time was the 3rd studio, led by
Vakhtangov. Ova staged Maeterlinck’s “The Miracle of St. Anthony” in
tones and forms of the grotesque. “Miracle” was remade several times,
until “it’s arrived”, etc.took its final form. I give this
the play is of much greater importance than “Princess Turandot”. B
“Miracle” was the first time. re-evaluated in the circle of traditions
The Art Theater is about “experiences”. True, due to the influence
theory of “heredity”, this was achieved fully, just as it is not possible
‘and now in all studios of the Art Theater. But there was a question
delivered, and in terms of external design, it is allowed to be very and
not too bad. ;

"Gurandot" is undoubtedly of lesser significance. This is stylization
This joke is still cabaret style. Some of the critics are quite
he aptly called her a cabbage. All of it is in the style of some dump
the aestheticism, the “prettyness” of a good Berlin storefront.
All of her is tailored to the tailcoat, to the lady’s smile, to the waltz. But huge
Vakhtavgov’s great directorial talent showed a lot of ingenuity,
a lot of wit. And he won.
No. 8 CRITICISM, IT

Aesthetic fascination with stylized “beauty”, composition
the position of the performance in the colorful plane of a purely pictorial approach,
it is even more emphasized in the last, - alas, post-Vakhtangov, -
the work of this studio - “Truth is good, but happiness is better.” It's already here
just admiring some kind of boxed intimacy, a “picture”,
“modernization” in the “World of Art” genre. Some kind of toy
an attempt at an impressionistic reconstruction of the old Ostrov theater
sky in the plane of the genre motif. This is 1908-10.

In general, for all studios of the Art Theater it is extremely
The process of merging the seam torn apart by the revolution is characteristic. C
on the one hand, they progressively take only the next step with
the place where we stopped in the “last lesson”, before the revolution.
From the peredvizhniki naturalism of “Crickets on the stove” and “Death”
Hopes" they move on to impressionism, to paintings,
positive, illumination currents of the bourgeois, pre-war
“modernism”, to the “tasty” and motley colors of the “Union of Russian Artists”
Dozhnikov”, “World of Art”, “Bubnovy Ballet”, etc. For example, -
“The Taming of the Shrew” in the 1st studio, with all these lribbons,
colored curtains, with all this game of coloring soft ma-
teria, with such a “salon” Katarina, with such a “decorative” Pe-
Truchio. Or - “Thunderstorm” in the 2.0th studio, with its prayerful “beautiful”
"vost", a mixture of Nesterov and Somov, with cheap emotional
effects of music under paint or light. On the other hand, these same
studios are trying to build some kind of bridge to engineering
style of stage construction of the so-called “left front”. On
This is why they are floundering.

This, of course, is the essence of the “change of milestones.” She "accepts"
new, but does not abandon the old. Trying to reconcile.

Anyway, one way or another. but - “the ice has broken.” In the depths
The Art Theater is undergoing “rejuvenation”. The process is underway which
there can no longer be anything in the Maly Theater, because there is no soil under it,
there are no social groups on which he can rely.

* *
*

In order to put an end to the “academic”, I must also
stop separately at the Kamerey Theater.

How can one explain his position? Who called him and what he is like
represents in the sense of social content?

This theater, starting in plan. purely eclectic, meaning
extensively amateur, quests, soon revealed his physiognomy
miyu as the theater of the bourgeois, pre-war, or rather even Italian

futurism.

89
173 HORN, No. 8

What did this primary futurism reflect in class (further,
everywhere—it is precisely this stage of futurism that is meant.—9. B.).

“Futurism,” as the head of this movement stated, intends
threaded Marinetti, “watches life from the window of a luxury express,
< soft seat cushions of a space-consuming car,
from the height of an airplane flight." All these cars were common property back then.
only a big capitalist. And the bourgeois, futurist used them,
like an athlete.

Oya does not want to see the process of creating these insanely expensive and
specially manufactured machines for him. Oa doesn't want to look
into the red-hot mouths of factories and factories, illuminating with tongues of flame
the sweaty bodies and exhausted faces of the proletarians. He takes these carsus
ready. He sells and buys them. And, sitting down comfortably, he begins
with incredible speed look around the landscape of flickering life,
begins to perceive it from a new artistic angle, under the sign
new beauty—the beauty of speed.

“Futurism” of that time was based on the poetry of capitalist
moneyed aristocracy, poetry of the ostentatious side of the bourgeois-industrial
slennogo city.

The worker who produced the car may love it dearly and
spiritualize this love in touching forms, as material
bath labor. The coupe athlete who purchased this car is all
goes into the engine and begins to value this engine above the human heart
chetical and, of course, higher than the heart of that proletarian, with whose hands
this motor is done.

The position of the theater in this matter is especially difficult. At that time
like all other types of original futuristic art,
by denying the “human man” (as they define him), they create
his “man-machine” from dead material, paints in painting
clay in sculpture, the written word in literature, the theater has to
have a depot with a living human. body, which still has no influence
turn the engine instead of the heart, no matter how Marinetti wanted it, or
propeller instead of jello; ka.

How to kill a “human man” on stage and replace him
a man with a propeller in his chest?

There is only one way out - to destroy living, physiological, labor
rhythms of the human body to the anti-muscular illusion, i.e. pro-
natural work, and speed them up until the moment of flickering
machine speed. "Fugurist" overtaking at breakneck speed
car, a live horse, manages to grab hold of this running horse
only the moments of that flickering when the approaching front and
the hind legs form a triangle, - and he draws the whole horse as a triangle -
No. 8. CRITICISM. 179

no one She has not four legs, but twenty-four, as it seems in
while she is running, and he draws a horse with 24 legs.

Marinetti formulates this with slogans: “wireless water”
image”, “down with syntax”, “down with punctuation”.

These same slogansrush onto the stage: - down with the syntax of the living
human body, down with the punctuation marks of human speech,

And indeed, remember the Chamber Theater of that time.

The actor is in continuous movement, not in a state of flux.
consistent, technically expedient movement, and in passing
vii. He moves, gallops, jumps aimlessly, for the sake of technical
the self-sufficient principle of movement for movement. Some kind of
a kaleidoscope of vanity, intrusive, annoying, out of any rhythm
technical, labor, worker-physiological movement. ‘

In the same way, the gesture is constructed in such a way as to kill the “human
‚human“, built against anatomy, against natural work
muscles and ligaments, is built for the aesthetic illusion of movement on
bearings, axles, levers. Therefore, the actor of this theater breaks out
gesture against the working functions of the body. The muscle is placed in a flat
the speed of inverted, dislocated work.

Punctuation marks are removed from the phrase. She starts somehow
then like a top so that the end catches up with the beginning, merging into new beauty
speed. And, deprived of a working foundation, the sound is just as intrusive and
flashes helplessly, like a gesture,

And yet, the original futurism was at one time a phenomenon
artistic and progressive. Breaking with artisanal psychologism
peredvizhniki, naturalistic art, it reflected the dynamics
Miku of the rapidly beating pulse of urban life in a bourgeois city
at the time of the imperialist war, on the eve of the ‘revolution’.

But it’s not for nothing that we now come across the term revolutionary futu-
rism: This is the futurism that its furs have already filled with ‘new’
content, dissociating itself from bourgeois futurism. .

The chamber theater did not find itself in this new camp. He immediately you-
threw the white flag of apoliticality and sat on the same bench with the association
academic theaters. True, he was to the left of them. He, if you want
political analogy—there was a Menshevik in art. And like everyone else
Mensheviks, began to rule quickly “in the thunder and storm” of the revolution, in order
not to be ranked “with the thief and the robber.”

Protecting the gene from all sorts of thingsth influence of the “revolutionary street”,
he even becomes “religious” and includes in his repertoire
mystic-catholic mass of Claudel’s “Annunciation”. And then,
as befits a good Menshevik, a turn towards a “healthy capital”
lism* of the eternal classics of art. He puts on "Phaedra"
where he solemnly renounces futurism and builds a bridge

12*

90
180 thief #8

“back”—to the “great” declamatory-realist “traditions”
Maly Theater.

The production of “Girofle-Girofle” is generally not very revealing, and
There is no need to dwell on it. This is an aesthetic-salon cross between a
Teska with “Viennese chic”.

I would call what the Chamber Theater does, in general, before
all - amateurism. There is no skill, no technical basis,
no artistic focus. Like any amateur, he most of all
afraid of staining the purity of her aesthetic vestments. He is not a producer
husband, he is afraid of life. And if you still put up with the old life
(and was even in the opposition at that time—a completely Menshevik!), then from the revolution
caulks all the cracks so that there is no blowing.

No matter how much “friends and acquaintances” refute it, it is clear that in
his trip abroad, to put it mildly, “was not successful,”

This is what the Berlin right-wing cadet “Rul” writes about him, which
to Roma, the “apoliticality” and “pure” aestheticism of the Chamber Theater seemed to
should have inspired 0s0bo friendly feelings:

“We know the approach of the Chamber Theater in advance, by heart (not through
is it, God forbid, he became an academic), and he is a complete pleasure
can only bring a dozen or so “aging young men”, preserving
they “contrary to” the Apollo code.

In its mastery, the Chamber Theater has outlived the element of the actor; not a milestone
on the way to the new, and the most curious dead end of the old theater, it is a reaction
the naturalistic current is a belated orchid in Tairov’s buttonhole. And
therefore, in its opposite, it is also akin to those who, for example,
I would try to cultivate “Uncle Vanya” today. I

The chamber theater has shown that if he is fully master of beauty—
then he has not yet achieved beauty. But from the theateryou are the least now
We are waiting for beauty. Chamber theater, as it came to us, it seems
least of all the advanced theatre. We have already outgrown it, and the current
his aspirations are alien to us.”

Well, if the Berlin “Rul” outstrips it, you understand...

My review has been delayed, and there is still a “left front” ahead. Allow me
about him in the next book “Gorn”.

/

N. Stranger.

LITERARY NOTES.

(For discussion purposes).
1.— APPROACH in APPROACH.

First of all, the approaches of literary criticism.

There may be different approaches. And they are all to the same extent
“legal” unless they claim to be exhaustive.
Spit—not “under the leg.”

The “formal” approach is legitimate (since formalists do not try to
tend to lock themselves into a self-sufficient theory). Secret and “journalistic”
“sky” approach (since publicists are “only helpers”).

Moreover: I would consider it completely legal even
“private” approach, when a literary critic who has sufficiently identified
himself as a whole, allows himself luxury, based on the established
or his like-minded people (equally formal or
journalistic), limit oneself to a direct pronouncement of the verdict.

Esthetician - in his specialty.

A publicist in his own way.

They will say: this is a “punitive expedition” | - and: this is a “crime”
tika"?—Nothing, let it be an "expedition": there are times when all sorts of things
_ the sharpening of the approach logically turns into an “expedition”. And—more:
what is the difference between a definitely, openly class-based literary critic
from other labor theorists and practitioners?

All specialties lead to the same “Rome”. And—you’re not alone
better, none worse. Even his specialty is a sewer cleaner. No need
Only this specialty can be considered self-sufficient.

And most importantly:

- There is no need to test your whole nose for too long
and the same smells.

There's a little bit of the bad, as well as the good.

Ra
182 ona No. 8

2. IN DEFENSE OF ASSENISATION.

I, a literary critic by profession, approaching literature
contour works, sometimes formally, sometimes journalistically, sometimes outline-
structurally-synthetically, depending on need—that's why I started talking
here about the approach is definitely sewerage, that modern growth
Russian literature, nine-tenths foreign to us, provides enough
reasons for that.

That is to say: nine-tenths of it is “with a smell.”

All Russian literature, for absolutely insignificant quantitative
but with the exception, it is now under the sign of awareness of yesterday.
This is its official flag, the protective color of its kind, accepted
washed up by the naive for the most necessary art of the day.

The latter is simply theoretically incorrect, because at best
Why is such art inactive, sluggishly reflective and passive?
art, necessary for the purposes of today's construction, is non-
effectively operates in the field of awareness of today, ‘and further and
of today's construction. Even where the artist-builder theme is
tically historical, i.e. operates in the field of facts of yesterday and
of a long-past day, even there he reveals, in essence, only
our current understanding of these facts. I'm not even talking about
that... science is much more perfect, and therefore necessary,
an apparatus for realizing yesterday.

It is especially wrong to consider it necessary for today’s construction
artistic awareness of yesterday when
The last operation is carried out following the revolutionary upsurge.
The substitution of creative work on “today” (in the name of “tomorrow”) is tiny
wrestling work on “yesterday”—there is not only a change of pace, but also
in its very essence the phenomenon is reactionary, for it is the most demonstrative
one of the types of escapism from reality, with its imperative
tasks of organization and searches for a way out of “essential troubles” -
into the realm of “the enchantment of sweet soaps” and into outright passeism.

The point, however, is not this, not a matter of theoretical incorrectness.

Or rather, not so much in it as in practically biased
the will of nine-tenths of the fiction writers is still not ours,
and therefore in practical results.

If awareness of yesterday logically turns into assessment,
then the assessment made by the artist-enemy (revolutionaryii), or hu-
a debtor from the “former”, even, finally, an “indifferent” artist—
inevitably and logically turns into... a revaluation of yesterday's valuable
ties—in this case: revolutionary values.
No. 8 CRITICISM. 183

!

We already have rich experience of such “revaluation”, covering
the vast majority of the Russian intelligentsia, burned by the revolution
tion of 1905—a “revaluation” that spread to almost the entire
Russian literature of 1907-8-9.

WE were, of course, not about that erotic flow (Artsybashev,
A. Kamensky and others), which was a reaction to the forced “abstinence”
zhanie“ of the revolutionary years and which then caused severe reprisals
from the side of Marxist criticism, which is still in everyone’s memory -
although this muddy stream also has its analogy with eroticism
lecture and, in part, literary flow of our days. Much
more revealing is the reassessment of the revolution itself.

This operation was performed, although not as casually as
“destruction” of all being (perhaps because the very idea
the anti-tsarist revolution was then more “intimidated” by the acceptance
the intelligentsia that roared than it was eliminated), ns—much wittier
and thinner.

It was very artistic, for example, to show how pleasant it is
but—just be “honest with yourself” and... change; or how young and
it’s great to sadistically belittle others, instead of being yourself
“we’re sitting down”; how smart it is to finally betray your favorite teaching and teach
lei, in the name of testing the faith and perseverance of those around him (“Judas of Ka-
Riota“, etc.). The people were vilified and getting dirty at the same time,—
so, you see, half-hearted and mediocre (from yesterday—"ge-
“roic”), who did not support the intellectual “heroes”. In every possible way
were debunked and brought down from yesterday's pedestals and the most
“heroes,” right down to the funny depiction of them... “well, that’s it, completely, completely,
like people." For example: you see, he was sitting in front of the police in one
shirt on the bed in the brothel where he spent the night, and the “bailiff
disgustedly looked at his dirty, knotty feet“... (from memory—
from Andreev's “Darkness”).

But myselfone nice and tried-and-true trick was to entrust some
some revolutionary (or revolutionary) this or that responsible
business, then make him (or her) fall in love with his class or
party opponent, and ruin the whole thing.

Bullying, inconstancy, public spitting on what
Yesterday they worshiped publicly—it’s cynical “to the point of grace”
stuck out at the forefront.

Mischief seemed to be a respectable occupation.

Just remember Kuprin’s “Seasickness,” after all. this is
Well... it's mean to the point of childishness!

A young, good, well-read revolutionary woman is traveling by sea to her husband -
revolutionary in Feodosia. Exhausted by sea sickness before. losses
consciousness. It is in this state that the abominable person becomes a victim.

184 o. Ute %.8

first captain and cabin boy. Brought, according to the author's description, to full
lack of receptivity, she nevertheless, according to mystical
revelation, the same author, experiences unexpectedly. at the same time: some
unprecedented, never experienced before... “pleasure”. Well, co-
Of course, after the ship approaches the pier, the gaze of “her”
falls on the “gray” social-democratic figure of the emerging wind-
to kid her husband, in a “gray” hat, of course, and—all life, and re-
Lucia, and her husband - everything suddenly seems somehow boring, insipid to her
and gray!

This is how the bourgeoisie, burned during the revolution, interpreted
intelligentsia this very revolution and revolutionaries in. 1907-8-9,
slipping. in their place “the vile creations of their meager imagination”
zheniya" (Sologub) and passing off this scoundrel as the most authentic
revolution!

This is how, “unrecognized” by the literature of this intelligentsia “yet-
tomorrow's (revolutionary) day...

Something similar to the same attempt to “understand” yesterday
(lifting-combat) day we see in Russian fiction even now.

Driven into a dead end by the social revolution, not just there
“disillusioned” with the revolution, as it once was, but, and directly spewed out
who filled her with all her class guts and hated the revolution
to the point of pain, the bourgeois intelligentsia of our days, thawing, makes
andan instinctive attempt to straighten the bent back, to “realize”
yesterday's fright, and presenting the offender as funny, insignificant
or wild, instinctively to take revenge for yesterday's infringement.

Still cautiously and timidly, but the further, the more
consciousness of impunity and impudence, using our skillful art
feminine policy and the NEP—she is no longer content with such
trifles, like the resurrection of some Eros on forced
virtuous land, but tenaciously and furiously bites into the calves of the re-
revolution.

\ and the flag.
0. same knowledge
- yesterday
- days.

3. EXAMPLES.

It's not far to go after them.

Isn’t this the whole retrospective-aware flow of literature?
tours of our days are a complete example. .

“I say: hardly” - because part of this “hindsight is
knowledgeable" literature is still represented by people who
with the best feelings, and only fundamentally incorrect, under-
No. 38 BRITKA. 185.

they go to her (by no means historical, for this is a matter of science, but)
retro: emotional task, trying to creatively clarify “today”
replace it with easy work on “yesterday”.

Easy - just for a fiction writer, difficult for a sociologist -
scientist, although incomparably more fruitful.

But these people, no matter how honest they may be, are psychologically
stepping on the wrong path, they unwittingly fall into captivity of the intelligentsia
reflexism, weakening the will for further victories, and - “turn sour”...
like an honest, but intellectually aesthetic, fiction writer
Yuri Libedinsky, who forced the young security officer Surikov (“Week”)
write a huge letter of pre-death repentance that would make
honor to any white emigrant, where in detail, and very suspiciously
truly touching, it tells how the security officers shot
in the winter of five White Guards, how they stripped them naked,
and—how their bodies “seemed greenish-yellow, as they seemed
through clear lake water"; for others, “moonlight made
the body is white and blue"... and—"ah! how silent and incomprehensible all this is, how
in a terrible, unrepeatablein her dream, in some kind of frosty nightmare“...

No matter how much narrow “formalists” talk about form
There is little inadmissibility of including something like this (eight pages long!).
letters from the character at the expense of the author - one thing is clear, objectively this is
“Awareness backwards”, through emotion, means: weakening of the will
to victory, anti-revolutionary aesthetic psychologism, philistine
Russian “thought” bordering on “revaluation of values” (in Savinkov
this also started with “The Bleeding Horse”).

As for the other “realizers,” ‘they all successfully
fit into the following, very simple, categories.

1. Indifferent ordinary people who for the first time believed that the Bolshevik—
this is not a devil in disguise, and is philistinely talkative
who set out to mold him into the image and likeness of the first one they came across
Ivan Ivanovich: playing pulka, loving his own
wife, but controlled by a “Soviet young lady”, sharing the aesthetic
theoretical theories of Korovo-Sobachevsky and - taking bribes are not that shocking
okay, not like greyhound puppies.

2. “Former people” from declassed intellectuals, departisan
roved revolutionaries, etc., still feeling their calluses
‘infringement, but cannot accept white ideology, and therefore pro-
whining and limping on both legs. Essentially, of course—
the same salopniks, but only more politically literate.

3. They're just panists. Obvious enemies. Quite definitely useful
due to our “love of the arts” and our... long-suffering.
But being a bagger is not given to everyone. It is necessary first to

9
186 tu. R.Y. No. 8

Europe at least somehow “believed” about you. Or - somehow
to become famous with an aphorism about revolution. In the style of Kuprin's "Marine"
illness." Only—not about the “gray” Social Democrats, of course, but about

"Leather jackets"...

I don’t insist on the accuracy of qualifications. But the diagram is correct. Yes
“transitional stages,” but this is already a matter of individuality...

The revolution is moving into everyday life - shaping this everyday life is not an easy task.
In some ways, it is much easier to draw patterns from yesterday.

The latter is in the hands of "hope""

“Yesterday” is being “explained” little by little. Revaluation of values -
in full swing. The “narrow legs” of the first Bolshevism are already disgusting
are examined by people wearing gloves.

“Easier on turns!” is the slogan of sewage criticism. more
one small “turn”, and the turn will come to “today”...

4. DISCLAIMER. *)

Most recently, judging by the tribune and printed publications,
steps, the interest of our responsible circles has noticeably sharpened
to the nature of the socio-political coloring of the latest fiction.

It's high time. And the interest is legitimate. It's just a pity that it's too
It’s too late when bookstores are already crowded with this fiction.
Above I said that a certain health, in connection with © revolutionary
ny tension of the era, the approach x “Serapionist” tendency of our
literature would not harm us at all.

The entire literature of our time, with very few exceptions,
built according to the type of bad memory, “revaluation of values”, which
The years 1907.3-9 are so characteristic of it. Take a moment
the Russian revolution, most often the era of war communism, and
“revised” according to talents. Since this operation is done
Rapia, for the most part, is not his own, and sometimes hostile, writer,
It is unfortunate that Bolshevism, for example, comes out as more absurd and wild,
Soviet Russia dirty, 1705= and ornate, rustic-revolutionary

*) This note and the following were included in selections in Izvestia
All-Russian Central Executive Committee, Author.
No. 8 CRITICISM. 187

everyday life is criminal and nightmarish, and Soviet leaders, if “not
stuck”, then Ivanushka-fools, whom he leads for
some speculative lady or a pretty, Soviet young lady.

Here you go.

Once again, on duty post-revolutionary “revisionism”
attention was paid, even belatedly, follows this circumstance
just be happy?

So. But:

— unfortunately, we have to rejoice with a reservation.

Krylov also said about some helpful critics: “although, they say,
service to us in times of need is dear, but“...—etc., etc. No one
denies the legality of definitely journalisticwow, even “with a twist”
passion,” the critic’s approach to a work, since it is
the move is devoid of biased subjectivity, but it was completely wrong
would at the same time turn the work into a blind outline, according to which
“Any fellow” can “embroider” any patterns “based on his own pattern.”
If in innocent cases such techniques are called vulgarization,
tion, then what to call them when the embroidery is not done according to a blind pattern?
on a smooth canvas, but on living human flesh!

That fire of critical passions that flared up around
some individual literary works that divided la-
the hero of the appraisers “in half”—this one has already knocked down the appraisers
news indicates extreme distress among our comrades
in terms of elementary analysis of the thing being criticized, that is, everyone sees
in things is what he wants to see. Either revolution, then immediately saw-
nyak. Either—or.

It is usually overlooked that the breed of writers packs
fortunately, the breed is just as rare as, unfortunately, the breed
joking communists. Much more common, oddly enough
for the birthplace of five-year-old civil fights, still a breed of writers
ordinary people, i.e. creatures, not that apolitical, but between the legs
the fighting parties are mostly confused. Don't see this one
writing locusts clinging to the frame of newborn literature,
means: you can’t see the forest beyond Pilnyaki and others.

In vain.

A writer in the street, unlike some dirty trickster,

94
138 her.. No. 8

characterized by the fact that, having taken a step forward from the intermental nature
of his own, immediately tries to jump back two steps. This is the one
whose peculiarities are not noticed by under-critics. Noting a dozen
paragraphs that go towards the revolution with war, critics immediately dismiss
in fair “ahhs”, but backlashes, literally a paragraph later,
in the sense of gnawing into reaction, steps - not a word.

The conclusions are:

E) vulgar infidels, and

2) practically undeserved.

5. SALOPERS TORTURED BY CRITICISM.

About two undeservedly included in the “wrong” category of the conduit
in productions - it would not be superfluous to talkrit. Both are works of fashion
new: One thing that was fashionable yesterday: Rodionov’s “Chocolate” (magazine “Mo-
Lodaya Gvarlia"); the other is more modern: “The Life and Death of Nicholas
Kurbova" (I. Ehrenburg, edition of "New Moscow"). Both are puppyish
attempts to poke a curious philistine face into the vakpa-
mental words: Gubpodval, Lubyanka, Vecheka. Both—
declared dysfunctional... by the revolution!

The line of reasoning of the critics, at the same time, is extreme.
One, two, and the verdict is signed. Whatever the point, it's a guillotine.

Here, for example, is an article about “Chocolate”:

“Former member of the RKI Tarasov-Rodionov”...
- Orthodox religion? -
"decided".
— by prior “among ourselves” agreement?—

"to give our youth an ideological laxative. So that the youth
swallowed the pill without hesitation, writer“... .

—what a trickster!—

“presented the drug in a sweet shell ‘from the revolutionary
words, incidents, characteristics. and the story “Chocolate” came out. Tudavia
Komsomol magazine "Young Guard" due to an oversight...

— mitigating circumstance—
published this story, Some of the youth were weakened and para-
weakened..,
— have you considered a doctor’s examination?—

“Others—with strong stomachs and brains—condemned the story, as
counter-revolutionary"...$

CH.

. RR.
A", CHO cho" and WE

m Threat
ZRITEKKA 189

en Aya

"and they did the right thing. Judge for yourself"...

The critic begins to judge “himself”:

“A certain chairman of the Cheka, an honest fighting fellow, a proletarian,
an old Bolshevik, he was pure and incorruptible. His name was abused
some lady, a former ballerina, an employee of the Cheka. She took (allegedly
for the chairman of the Check) money for the release of an arrested merchant
son.

It would seem that since the Chairman of the Cheka is clean and incorruptible, he is known
everyone, like an old, firm revolutionary - why talk too much about it?
Adventurer - “to the nail” and published: this is how we deal with
clinging to scoundrels and scoundrels."

Simple! Oh, here you go!

"Everything is going wrong for Tarasov-Rodionov. The honest fighter was sentenced to
ready to be shot. From the Central CommitteeAn authorized representative of the party is coming to investigate this matter.
ny is a disgusting subject. Almost a scoundrel. He and the former
Chevik, and red. and impudent, and stupid, and biased, and cruel.

What about the local provincial committee? Although he was convinced that the security officer was not guilty of anything
guilty, but for the sake of some special justice, the security officer decided,
shoot a little. Moreover, they sent one to the condemned man
a prominent communist who eloquently argues that he should be shot
an honest, deserved, innocent comrade - this is what
revolutionary morality.

And he seemed to have persuaded him. It’s as if he was sentenced for nothing, for nothing
that the comrade is in a terrible hurry to undergo this useful
operations,

That's the whole story."...

It follows—sentence:

“A counter-revolutionary story”...

“We need to get rid of this laxative vomiting mess.”...

“To hell with all the chatterboxes and pretentious people who”...

“We have such literary chicken children.”...

“It was acceptable to spit on and even spit on the revolution”...

“We’ve had enough of Pilnyatsky chocolate”... (Article by L. Sosnovsky
in “Rabochaya Gazeta” from 16 lu)

The trial, as you can see, is quick, leftist, but... somewhat peremptory -

merciful and not merciful,

Indeed.
An obviously funny, very far from

combat reality, downright stupid with its century-old connections
government - “revolutionary morality”. But what of this? Did you want to
the author to discredit the chairman of the Cheka with this “morality”? Not at all. In my own way
For him, it’s probably even the opposite.

Whether good or bad, it is a fact that the romantic belief in

a certain “hero” with five plus lives in a refined soul

Ze"
199 eg No. 8

modern layman. This faith may even directly
which replaced faith in a leather jacket as in the Antichrist - the
good for the average person, which allows him to live without doing anything. But
it also requires the constant maintenance of the sacred fire before
icon of the “hero”.

The fetishized mystery of some house on Lu-
bianke, the halo of superhuman moral responsibility assigned to
noah na obitathe inhabitants of this house - all this inevitably attracts
alarming, coming from the very gut, attention of the average person. Him and
it’s scary to see the fruits of your imagination, and to the soul of all this mystery
I'm dying to see it. The result is a “product” that displays
reaping, to the best of one's talents; and productive curiosity, and fear, and
faith of the average person - a work that is conceived as the deepest
penetration into the “secrets of the Madrid Court”, but in which black
splattered on white is no longer an intricate representation of an ordinary
Vatell about the driving springs of the revolution and its heroes.

Objectively, from such a philistine touch there is a revolution,
Of course, she benefits from every touch of confusion and
stupid mishmash, but subjectively - all this is ridiculously far from
“spitting and even vomiting on the revolution.” The noted belief in "ge-
swarm”, even maintaining the lamp fire - they save the average person from
tones of special dirty tricks, and at most what is disappointed
for the average person to become a “hero” is to show that the “hero” has sinned
against the (imposed) Ovyatitol morality, - well, and send him to look for
"redemption" in death. This is exactly how both heroes of both novels end -
new - both chairmen of the Cheka! - Tarasovsky Zudin in “Chocolate”. and
Kurbov in Ehrenburg's "Nikolai Kurbov". The first one is because,
at least through the family, involuntarily came into contact with the philistine and
lost the pre-Check honor that justified him in the eyes of the average person
hundred The second is because she turned out to be “just a person,” i.e. like this
same as the author, an ordinary man, and allowed himself to fall in love with the girl.

Stupid? Yes. But what does counter-revolution have to do with it?

Vice versa! The most genuine “revolution”. Only - in the image and
in the likeness of... the average person, i.e. - how it appears to the average person, but
which... they don’t do it themselves. For, understand, comrades, that you will take away
from the average man his inactive faith in his invented “saint”,

AE

No. 8 CRITICISM. 191

and - the average person will have nothing to “live” with, and there will be no one for him, between the bullets, to
Lenkas and services, there will be “praying”! Otejuda - and idealization
ridiculousthe zeal of the “hero”; hence—and underestimating this
sacrifice “red-haired” (is there a counter-revolution here?) investigator;
hence - and not red-haired, but beautiful, burning brunettes from the Gubkom,
decided, in favor of philistine “public opinion” (aka -
“highest justice”), “honest, proven revolutionary”
“shoot a little.”

And rightly so:

- Called yourself a saint, get into the philistine body!

Where is “spitting”!.. “Laxative” is true; "to hell"
expelling” from Komsomol magazines is correct. But... so that in Lip-
To drag the basement of the first inhabitant you come across is “more expensive for yourself”!..

Now—0 about “The Life and Death of Nikolai Kurbov.”

With criticism of “Kurbov”, it’s also as if “the web is more expensive.”

He was somehow erased along the line of “spitting and even vomiting on the revolutionary
lucia" they let me in. “And again, in vain.

The approach is incredibly simple. They are taken, as I already said, by
subjectively biased selection, only negatively characterizes
evocative phenomena or individual characters, quotes, and—literally
not a sound is mentioned about others, sometimes right next to them, opposite
voivore-resistant places.

This is the anti-Kurb article in “On Post.”

Starting with a “private” inspection of the novelist’s passport, how do we know
that the latter is “a Parisian bohemian, a Catholic mystic and change-
hovets,” the critic proceeds to the formal “beating of babies,”
by pulling odious quotes from a book. Not to mention half
no one-sidedness of this... work, many quotes are simply amazing
This is exactly how they angered the critic. Here, for example:

“Home-grown Buonaparte, chess player and leader of the steppe
hordes arrayed under the banner of twenty-one points of some resolution
tions. This is a triangle."

Or:

"Vozdvizhenka. State house, with columns. House, hack house. Only
not on foot - cars; If they don’t enter, they fly in, and everyone is carrying briefcases. Huge-
ny district... And the simple sign - like a dentist - is rusty,
tin: Central Committee of the RKI
192 goth. No. 8

What's reprehensible here? Third party, not ours, yes. Psychology
philistine salopnik, “scared to death and nothingnot according to
who knows what kind of Recape this is, near the building of the Central Committee of which,
“Having dropped her mouth and being stunned, she stopped,” and that’s true. But why?
Frighten with “counter-revolution”?

In their own way, and from the point of view of the philistine philistine - all these
characteristics of I. Ehrenburg, starting from geometric figures in
waiting and ending with the everyday surroundings of the hungry period of Moscow - sometimes
even interesting as an attempt at third-party awareness. Isn't it
This is exactly how all these Ransomes understood the blockade revolution,
tsial correspondents of the Manchester Guardian, poets Bloki with white
snowy Christs leading the half-convict-half-sacred
TV revolution? And did it even occur to anyone to pull
them To the “post”? I

In Ehrenburg, as in “Chocolate,” there is a lot of Blok’s work. The same love
the curious manifestation of bright saintly negatives on a “red” background;
the same peculiar crossing of revolution with the hangout “Cockroach”
ford"; the same, finally, sad acceptance of the revolution (how could it not
accept when the great martyr and the truth through the “Cockroach Ford”
bears it!), and—with the same breathless sigh: “on your back, you have to tam-
new ace“... Oh, these leather jackets; everyone is so interesting, so...
geometric souls on an unprincipled, lax philistine background
no, just... why are they so rude and don’t even hesitate to use
calling some Andermatov and Chir (characters with one leg
in the Cheka, and the other in the dock), as if revolution is impossible
do it with white gloves!..

“Having been quite surprised and grumbling at the twitchy quote-
there,” the same critic unexpectedly concludes: |

“This is not the disclosure of White Guard conspiracies, this is not Savinkovism.”
(i.e., the author of “Nikolai Kurbov”) are occupied; he probably doesn’t believe in
ste with all the counter-revolutionary ordinary people who were (i.e., for-
dialects, Savinkovism, etc.); he is perhaps inclined rather to lumal, that
this is a Bolshevik invention”... (B. Volin. — “Slanderers”, in No. 1 “On duty”).

This is truly true: to him, Ehrenburg, with goodness, and with his brow!
As if the whole “Kurbov” wasn’t built on a conspiracy! As ifanti-
under Kurbov—“socialist Vysonov”—is not, not even disguised
almost new, Savinkov! And chapters and paragraphs about emigration, already interpreted
No. 8 BRITKA. 193

not in a philistine way, but like a certain corrupt bastard!—
in the name of what kind of “guard” operation is all this, in black and white
what is incised in the novel is silenced. a critic?!

Unfortunately, I do not have the space to contrast the whole
dozens of such quotes castigating emigration are one-sidedly
damn quotes from the “guard” article. They're all so beat up
fading in front of them the languid-headed sketches given
critic, that, of course, there is no talk of any “spitting or even vomiting”
“revolution” is out of the question in the novel.

It’s clear: before us, as in “Chocolate” and many others,
our works of modern fiction are extremely
a characteristic phenomenon of the typical philistine, (and in “Kurbov” - and
with a certain shade of change-of-vechism), approach to the revolution in
next day. The average person may only be recovering now
from yesterday's blow to the forehead and makes the first attempts to wipe his eyes
va. Curiosity is the main stimulus that drives the average person to “0co-
knowledge." Realizing the situation, he, like Ehrenburg, is already two steps away
moves away from the whites, while simultaneously taking a step towards accepting the advice
skogo existence. Lubyanka is, perhaps, the main point between the average person and
acceptance of the wall—from here it’s a funny, circumspect, poking at the Lubyanka.

Well, of course, the average person’s step through the Lubyanka is an insignificant one,
and not a multi-action, and more often a forced step, but: do not take into account
these are the steps in the country, where one tenth of those actively fighting
still nine-tenths of the inhabitants—definitely not.

and

Well, of course, to cultivate unconditionally salopno the customary
television literature in our state, and especially party-
new publications are quite funny, but: equally, if not
Moreover, it’s funny to not be able to evaluate the already available “not our” literature.
tour, to distinguish a simple man in the street from a malicious counter-revolutionary
and a dirty trickster. b

Ovomu“talent”—, “talent”; new check - check.

It’s especially funny to publicly operate with under-analysis of a product.
people holding Marxist and other responsible “posts”.

The question of responsible art criticism, as well as the answer -
political policy in art, should be put on the order of the day.

13
194 NU fi, no. 8

In a recent case, one responsible newspaper
declared the fiction writer Seifullin both necessary and a “great talent”,
and the other is responsible, although not printed. organ at the same time
At the same time, he saw a counter-revolution in Seifullina.
think about it.

The case when the publishing house “New Moscow” publishes Ehrenbur-.
of the same publishing house! —
“Kurbov” is declared to be White Guard, and is even more characteristic.
Nikolay Tarabukin.

IN THE WORLD OF PAINTING.

(Characteristic phenomenon).

Painting by Konchalovsky. Text by P. P. Muratov Book publishing
"Creativity". Moscow, 1928. Printed in 999 numbers.
bathrooms and 50 registered copies. Price 10 rubles in gold.

Truly, everyone sees differently. One—‹ &take the jet prism-
days ahead of him. The other is “above the barriers” of modernity
looks to the future, And the meeting is both modern and future
considers in the aspect of yesterday two. Muratov, this conscious
eclectic and antique anachronist, even Konchalovsky, the painter,
associated only with today, weighs on dusty scales
past. Konchalovsky is good for Muratov because he is “privileged”
belonged to the category of painters, through whose efforts art is created
property, allows us to look into the past, not without some
further satisfaction." If only the artist could stand with the past,
there was competition so that the past would not be shocked by its new
properties, and an antique soul, mixed with old ones, greatly damaged
by leaps and bounds, calm down!

Attached to the publication of Muratov’s “Magic Stories” is his
a portrait drawn by a draftsman allegorically: the author stands
feasted in a cloak. Based on literary characters
middleother centuries, we are familiar with these cloaks of the “Old Testament”
Veta." At the turn of the twentieth century, like a belated burp of a former romantic
feudal-noble life, a decadent-bourgeois galaxy arose
eclectic symbolists in literature and reprospectivists in painting,
draped in the cloaks of the latter {Judovics, Roman togas and
Greek chitons. But the fact that at the beginning of our century dialectically
leaked out as a product of the most reactionary calm in the public
and as a counter-form, as an antithesis to the dominance of naturalistic tendencies
tions in art, then the same phenomenon is becoming anachronistic these days.
nism, which has lost the only “charm of nonsense” that justifies it.
cowpeas." Since such an anachronism is cultivated deliberately, -
he becomes a socially reactionary phenomenon, and characterically -
just a curiosity. Such a curiosity against the backdrop of modernity pre-
appears deliberately and maliciously draped in an anachronistic cloak
figure of Muratov.

13*

98
196 OR No. 3

His entire writing activity, from judgments about painting to
fictional experiments, is characterized by distance from modern
minorities. He says “for yesterday” and “as yesterday”, therefore to those who live
Today it’s boring to listen to him, but tomorrow he won’t need him at all
to what extent. And only a narrow, ever-shrinking circle
there may still be dusty, antique-curious shadows like him
respond with the tuning forks of their anemic souls to his eclectic
views.

Even the paintings of Konchalovsky, this naturalist, devoted
objective, material world ©0 with all passion and one-sidedness
artisan, in love with the subject - Muratov wanted to give a certain
mythological and spiritual washed away. “The mythology of Corot and Rousseau,
their original European and fundamentally classical worldview, like
must have been tempting for him! Konchalovsky admired
and was in awe." “In his spiritual “Fiddler” the artist,” according to
Muratov’s opinion, - understood that the appearance of a thing is more beautiful than the thing,
and the myth of form is more important than the fact of form.”

The very concept of “materiality,” introduced by the author to characterize
terto identify the artist's way of seeing the real world and transforming
it into pictorial forms, received from Muratov some
’that is also a “spiritual” shade. “Substantiality” by Konchalovsky,
like Cezanne, according to the author of the monograph, this is a picturesque
a task of pure ingenuity based on the desire
convey the pretsmet from the side of its shape-volume, but something else, not
coinciding neither with the concept of form, nor with volume, nor with objectivity.
“His task now is to compare forms and substances
for the sake of a more deeply understood and more subtly traced sensation
both,” says the critic about Konchalovsky’s works ’13.
“Cezanne spent his whole life ill not only with form, but also with a keen sense of
materiality of objects." But this materiality gets along quite well
with the “spirituality” of the same objects. In recent works
Dozhnik - “The Violinist”, portrait of Hevts, “Bathers”, landscapes
19-21 - Muratov is inclined to see a completely new approach to nature,
“not a still life, but a portrait.” “The fabrics are filled with air, drape-
The edging in the portrait of Genz falls with the flow of classical draperies.
nimble Pictorial relationships strive for classical clarity
this portrait, a living portrait, not a portrait still life."

It is difficult to dispute this kind of impressionism, which claims
that “the tissues are filled with air.” Our opinion is that Konchalovsky,
a typical still life painter, remained so in his later portraits and
landscapes. But the monograph contains quite a few points made
about more specific things than “air in the tissues”. Osta-
I’m updating myself on the critic’s judgments about the surface of Konchalovsky’s paintings.
No. 8 CRITICISM. 197

“He is looking for inscription in every inch of the canvas” (?), - they say about the hole
“Agave”—“such a carefully and exquisitely sculpted surface is not
we meet in other still lifes.” But it turns out that
in Cembrero and Cigari “the language of writing approaches again
to the mastery of "Agave", and in this direction the artist even makes
takes another step forward when he writes “Fruits and Crystal.” You can
thtalk about many things from Konchalovsky, but not about the “sophistication of writing”
ma“. Anyone who, at least once, peered into the loose, damp
the surfaces of Konchalovsky's canvases, so opposite to the strong
and elastic canvases by Cezanne, the absurdity of the statement “hu-
venerable critic." Feeling myself that the “refinement of writing”
cannot be extended to at least most of Koncha’s works.
Lovsky, Muratov gives a curious explanation for the absence of this “is-
"skavnosti" in other works of the artist. „The Jewels of the Picturesque
surface, this condensed mastery that manifested itself here
(“Agave”), as if the artist was even somewhat frightened (!)
feeling a tying hand in it and limiting visual
I’m thirsty.’ Why did Muratov’s favorite old Italian ma-
they were not afraid to meet them in well-designed surfaces
Is this the “hand-binding” beginning of your paintings? While the author convinces,
that the folds of the fabric “breathe” and are “full of air”, it is possible with more
or a lesser degree of skepticism or boredom to listen to him, n.. as soon as
judgments move into the plane of the material facts of painting, -
For example, such confusing definitions appear: “Having said goodbye
with paint autonomy, Konchalovsky is now involved (!) in the design
tions (!), and in response to the change of color a tone is born.” But isn't tone an element?
the same color, and if so, then how can they be opposed?
are at war with each other?.. You also come across such masterpieces of terminology
gical precision: “The play of picturesqueness (!) and the harmonization of material
real-life riches."

About Muratov, at least among those who know him closely,
there is an opinion that its judgments differ in “taste and
cash*. I assert that in the monograph on Konchalovsky, how
in its construction as a whole, and in a number of its individual aesthetic’
provisions, -Muratov shows bad taste by expressing
a whole series of platitudes that have become greasy and old
cars on the street of artistic everyday life,

I will mark them point by point, leaving it to pour on notwhich.

1) “We are present at the revival of painting.” But of course
Of course, this revival should not be seen in “other extremes”
passing moments of Picasso and Derain, which, perhaps, are necessary
are used as it is necessary to bring the experiment to the end, to the limit
in which the truth is learned in abeurd.” There should be no revivalists

|

99
198 ro-fea K No. 8

in Paris. “One could name dozens of people currently working in Pa-
like painters who, in the honesty and deep sincerity of their
craft, free from any deliberate tricks
ny, create not great, perhaps, but undoubtedly artistic
era." But it immediately turns out that about the “dozens of names” -
one hundred advance Not only can they not be named, but they don’t actually exist,
“We still don’t know the names well,” says Muratov, “but we will recognize them,”
he enthusiastically hopes, “when our men will be inhabited by their things.”
Zei“. In such a formulation of the question and dispute, it seems, there can be no
but doesn’t this same promise require putting aside the problem of “revival”?
the birth" of painting to the moment of "population with things", if not museums,
then at least exhibitions so that we can see them, and not just
hope for their appearance?

2) The next truism of Russian art criticism, expressed
called the “original and talented” Muratov, this is faith (also
only “faith and hope”, as in the first case) in the appearance of the “picture-
“us”, which must change the sketch, save the dying art and
to lead him out of the dead ends into which the “left” artists had led him.
Radlov spoke about this a long time ago in connection with Kustodiev. Now
Muratov speaks about this in connection with Konchalovekiy. From all these
tales, in fact, nothing. based, only evidence-
who are completely insensitive to modernity, carries the deepest
provincialism. This is not the place to prove complete hopelessness
“revival” of easel painting. This hopelessness also has a form
small and social reasons.

8) Next stencil: analogy between Konchalovsky and Cézanne
aom, - truth expressed very carefullyoh and unpersistently. Wey
the instability of such a parallel, usually drawn by Russian artists,
national critics, I already had to reveal in my article
“Konchalovsky and Cezanne” (in the magazine “Theater and Studio”, 22 g, No. 1).

4) The form of the monograph itself is traditional, revealing
therefore, a chronological list of the stages of the artist’s creativity.
Her apologetic tone. The constant impression from the monograph is when
the master in question turns and the central figure is one-
temporary art remains from this one, There is no
historical perspective, Not only socially, but also artistically
Konchalovsky’s work has not been formally developed as a phenomenon of those
or other social and aesthetic factors. Konchalovsky took
outside the time and environment that conditioned it, grew into some great
kana of modern art, its pride, hope and hope,
which creates a “picture” and “revives” painting.

5) The matter could not have happened without witchcraft and magic: “sacred quietly
“spirit of work”, “overshadowings and insights from above”, “sparks of Promethean fire”
and other devilry from the dictionary of aesthetic popovetva.
No. 3 CRITICISM. 199

6) In its place are a number of platitudes specifically inherent
Muratov, fascinated (even from childhood!) by Italy.
About the Siena works of Konchalovesky he says: “they are quite sincere,
for Konchalovsky wrote in Italy, and I would like to think that exactly
Italy, Siena, harmoniously and nobly restrained, poured on
finally, he has the grace of his wise calmness.”

r) Well, of course, a series of lunges “to the left”. Ovi so
it is in the nature of things that the reader will believe in their existence even without
quotes.

Thus, having avoided some minor platitudes from the vocabulary of the European
significant artistic criticism, Muratov discovered the lack of original
gynality in the construction of the whole, in the analysis is picturesque. technical
masteretva that goes beyond the “breathing” curtains, and, finally,
in the absence of any originality of judgment at all. This is ordinary art
scientific-critical literature, from whose orbit it never leavesl-
Most of the works are about housing.

To the hungry mind of our artistic youth, looking for support
in the confusion of contemporary art, this book gives nothing. And not
you regret that the book is not available due to the high cost of these young people and,
It’s probably good that the publication has such a limited circulation. From
shops, she will quickly dive into the closets of bibliomaniacs and only occasionally will
remove dust from it. This is a worthy purpose for her,

- The cover was made by S. Chekhonin. Form of text in the surname Koyacha-
lovsky is entirely borrowed from the cover of N. Altman to Mar-
kova “The Art of Negroes”. :)it seems to be called something different than
eclecticism?

/©9
R. Ginzburg.

RANDOM OR LINE?

(Discussion article).

In the fall of 1923, the Veroseiysky Congress and the Moscow Provincial
The Conference of Trade Unions in its resolutions on cultural construction allocated
workers' club has a central place in the political and educational work
work among the masses and recognized its main task as the fight against the deployment
growing petty-bourgeois ideology.

In the spring of 1923, the K.O. Union of Metalworkers gave in the Hall of Columns
House of Unions, in front of a large number of invited workers,
even evening of club work at the enterprises of the Union. Naturally
that this evening, which was supposed to show how advanced the Union
implemented the resolutions of the Congress, represented a large practical
and theoretical interest for cultural workers.

For the average visitor, everything was very different this evening.
safely, the choir sang, the physical education clubs showed their exercises
tours, drama groups performed; was even included in the program
collective recitation. But to the cultural workers present
it stubbornly seemed that all this was happening at least in the 20th year, when
there is no NEP yet, and when the struggle on the ideological front has not yet begun
I felt such a fierce character. In fact, in the winter of 1922-23.
the offensive of bourgeois ideology proceeded on a broad front, covering
sometimes even raising slogans friendly to the proletariat; moreover,
remnants of the old way of life also increased significantly during this period
expanded NEP. Kabesides, they defended the positions of proletarian culture
tours, workers' clubs for metalheads?

First of all, it should be noted that the demonstration of “club” works
limited exclusively to the field of art. No reports on
scientific and social-educational work of clubs, at least in digital
rah and diagrams, was not given.

Let us therefore turn to art and focus on work
drama clubs, which are usually the center of club life. Dramstu-
diy of the Mytishchensky plant showed quite decent performance -
Research Institute "Harbor" by Maupassant. In the studio's interpretation it was difficult
an episode from the life of a big city, ending with a “call for do-
virtuous people. Although the main theme of this work (prostitution) is easy
permitted in the light of our social teachings, it is permitted in
No. 8 CRITICISM. 201

a play in the spirit of petty-bourgeois ideology, as a serious condition,
from which humanity will not find a way out.

Another drama club even more “responded” to the challenges of our time,
showing “Kashirekaya Antiquity” (1st act), staged in the style of
nogo Maly Theatre.

The choir performed several revolutionary and folk songs and
left the stage without even showing his skill and causing bewilderment
about their independent existence.

The most interesting things in the reporting evening were the physics clubs.
cultures (especially the circles of the Kolomna plant), which showed stren-
the desire (especially for children’s groups) to connect their work with the current
life, but about them the question arises whether it is necessary to pose
physical education is so in-depth and transform. her from a weapon for
maintaining health is a special kind of art.

Was there any echo in this entire evening of the fact that the clubs were on the...
Are they fighting petty-bourgeois ideology? Was there even
one point that would speak 0b of the search for new forms in the club
work? Scattered circles left and came to the stage, until
calling conscientiously learned numbers, and the same. scattered,
The work of their clubs also seemed unviable. And, after all, on the ground,
undoubtedly, there are sprouts of a new club life, and they may be,
those who are not perfect would have much more influence,
if they were reflected at the evening, than all these neat
licked numbers. Why didn’t the Union try harder to read the lecture diagrams?
ational work in clubs, at least in Podolsky and Simonovsky club-
bang? Why were the studios of these and other clubs that had
materials that were much more suitable for the club’s objectives than those
which were shown at the evening? What is this? Chance, organization
tional shortcomings? Or a line of club work that requires clubs
exclusively work in the field of “pure art”, in the forms of additional
horn of old time?

A number of individual facts will help us understand this issue.
from the club practice of cultural departments.

Before the holidays of Christmas and Easter, religious departments are busy
frantic work on approving estimates for performances for adults
and “Christmas trees” for children. Every “self-respecting” club must
‘organizes performances and dances throughout the holiday week, which
Certainly, regardless of holidays established by the code
labor. For children who have been ignored by clubs for a whole year,
Naya, during the holidays there are Christmas trees and evenings with performances,
through those imbued with bourgeois morality; and somewhere lonely huddles
this week the Komsomol evening, usually provided
own: the forces of youth. It seems there was no case that any

191
202 OS 0-7 No. 8

Somehow the cultural department crossed out all these estimates for performances and “Christmas trees”
and explained to his cultural committees that it was not the business of the workers’ cultural club
tivate church holidays and should no longer infect
them children. Since everyday life is more conservative than consciousness, it is clear that religion
with religious festivities we support the church much more than
We destroy it with disputes. But try telling this to a trade unionist,
and he will definitely answer you: “But the worker demands different times on holidays.”
attractions."

Let us note one more moment of club work, perhaps much more
less important than the previous one, but ultimately leading
to the same introduction of bourgeois elements into the clubwhom life.
We mean dances and dance evenings, which before the NEP
were very strictly rejected by trade union cultural workers and who
now they are accepted almost without objection. What do they pre-detail?
what is dancing in clubs like? Comrade Tomsky, who threw out the catchphrase:
“tell the worker to dance,” which some union workers
taken literally, probably never looked into modern
workers' club, otherwise he would have seen that among those dancing at the club
In the evenings there are absolutely no workers, especially adults. They dance con-
shop workers with familiar young ladies, children dancing with ecstasy st. 10
up to 14 years of age, sometimes a small part of working youth. In’ club ne-
Along with the dancing, all the ugliness of low-class life is roared. Still ve
there was a case in club practice when the element that
The club hosts dance evenings (usually the most apolitical and
philistine), through these evenings he was attracted to some other
club work, and meanwhile some other clubs are not satisfied
those who organized these dance evenings managed to involve young people in other
cultural work. Should we tell the zealous trade unions about this?
nicknames, they again refer to the “will of the masses”... to dance.

The petty-bourgeois repertoire of performances in clubs, which
used to be justified in every possible way by the absence of a revolutionary reper-
Tuara, is now recognized as almost equal. We saw this on
reporting evening even in relation to circles, especially this applies
to singing performances in working clubs of professional artists.

The last word in club policy is the sale of beer in the club
buffet and the organization of billiards there, as a result of which in clubs
“drunken” scandals have already been observed - this is a phenomenon
the same order as the previous ones.

How can we explain this introduction into clubs, with the blessing of the Union?
call, petty-bourgeois ideology and life at a time when they are called upon
the establishment of the Congress to be the center of the fight against these phenomena? Accident? Oversight? To paraphrase the famous saying of Suzoroz,
we will say: “one is an accident, two is an accident, let ussomewhere
No. 8 BRITIKA 208

and misunderstanding." And, indeed, it seems to us that we have here
this is a distortion of a very correct line that says that
the club must listen to the demands of the masses. But to answer for
asking the masses—this does not mean trailing behind the most backward
part of her, satisfying her artistic and everyday tastes in the club,
and it also does not mean replacing the club with a tavern with “reasonable entertainment”
Chevyi." Cultural workers need to be able to grasp the bare reality
of the working masses, and not the crowd that was closest to the bourgeoisie
layers and is now trying to pass off its voice as the will of the working masses.
We must find ways to involve the most backward masses in the club, without sacrificing
keeping in mind the main tasks of the club. This can be achieved by pouring
joint efforts of a number of cultural institutions.

Therefore, any attempt to monopolize club work and
to be its only leader, not only organizational, but
and ideological - this attempt, which is now being undertaken by the profeo-
zami, can lead to the same degeneration and internal disintegration
the wave of clubs that took place in previous years. Over time
I will no longer need some of the details specified here, but in the absence
any club practice, except that which is carried out monopoly
ny organization, the slightest incorrect deviation in its work can
lead to disaster.

104)
Whistle.

SELF-RITICISM AND SELF-BIBLIOGRAPHY.
“ABOUT THIS”.

Having become bored with wandering thoughts over “ballads”, from which even
and the flies faint, some of our comrades love to strike
be attracted by the good “pirika” in some kind of “Ogonyok”... itself,
whatever it is, red.

Here, for example, a comrade from “October” sings the praises of his “friend”:

“This red flame is hairy—
How, how did it flow?
How in my life they were caught on fire
Today of love,

Mouth to flesh

(Like a brand in the skin)
Got it?

Lvinoe

In a strong throw
Curls, in a curl
Slipped onto a steep neck
To the shoulder."

This exoticism ends with:

“Here she is nearby

With a victorious look.
Squeeze tightly

The gait is elastic.
Ona worthwhile friend.",

And, after all, it’s probably right that recently we talked about such red singers
Demyan said: $
- “You guys will be spoiled.”
Yes, knock out the fraction,
'Dancing with other people's trotters on a harness!
Time for you, brothers, to sing in your own way,
Replacing old people in the party ranks...“

Where there!
Semyon Rodov.
No. $ CRITICISM. 205

TO THE SIDE,

"G. V. Plekhanov. Works, vol. 1\. With a preface by Ryazanov. - Giza. 1923."

Need a review.
The recipe is very simple:

— Take futurism (“15-20 years before its appearance”), recall-
thread “by the way” symbolism and anarchism, season with hashishism, ni-
ism, mysticism, Catholicism, “even monarchism” and anti-Semitism
tism, and Plekhanov’s “criticism and bibliography” is ready.

As a result, we read:

“Many decadents and symbolists of that time combined in their “views”
"dah" snatches of anarchist thoughts (or rather, phrases) with futurist (for
15-20 years before the advent of futurism) nihilism, Catholicism, mysticism
cism and shocking eroticism, hashishism and even monarchism
mom and anti-Semitism!.. It must be admitted that the preface of Comrade. D. B. Ryaz-
Nova is too short."

The late G.V. Plekhanov liked to repeat:

- Every person has the right to be about, however, not follow-
blows this right to abuse.

Briefly, but enough for the wise.

B. Gimelfarb.
EVERYDAY PHENOMENON.

We have a juicy pee about narbyt.
There, somewhere between the illustrations of “The Paris Strike
milliners" and "Emerging Russia" - we read:

“Guryan can’t move from his place, he looks at her cheerfully, he plays.”
a tight ass covered with a tight skirt, the words sank into my gut. And she,
shishiga:

- You, comrade, will not be from the village?

Guryan glanced sideways, sticking out his lip:

- Well, what is it?

“Can you give me a ride?”

Not even five lines have passed before:

“The woman cut my heart, I would have swallowed it right away along with the bo-
Teens in high heels. She has a very fascinating build.
Guryan spread his legs, thinking.”

12 lines pass:

“Guryan was lured by a woman’s voice.
- What should I do with you, sit down!
He scratched the gelding's mane and stuck his fist in his muzzle. Wench tooHe preens himself, sticks combs into his hair.”
Let's go. /

10.5
206

BURN. t No. 8

Another 30 lines:
“And she stretched out her legs, as if on a bed. Guryan won’t even tolerate
These boots fly. The love that she doesn’t understand, but Guryan’s

looks like love.
Guryan hit the gelding with the whip.”

Another 23 lines:
“The woman looked at Guryan, sighed and suddenly lay down on her back.

- What kind of woman do you want?
The gelding seemed to be floating through the air in his braces,”

`Another 20 lines:

“A woman jumped out of the cart and shouted cheerfully:
Don't look back!

- Why?
- Your brother is not supposed to... How slow-witted you are, comrade...

- Tiru!=...

5 more lines:
“He jumped; he picked up the woman and squeezed her.
- 0!

Darkness has fallen
And in this darkness, different sparks rained down, and in one minute it burned down
a gelding with a cart, field clouds, all the earth and all the people on the earth. Remained

only “a woman in strong flaming hands.”

We stopped by Guryan:

“She sat down on the bed, swaying.
This happens to a person who loves. Didn't cast a spell on the grass
the child didn’t even look into the water, & Guryan again doesn’t remember how he went to
beds“...
After 10 lines:
“For about a minute Guryan drank sweet poison, rocked, got drunk,
and again, like a dear one, he didn’t feel sorry for anything. And again, how dear,

The whole hut burned down with blackened icons and the old master's worries...
“Well, let’s go, let’s go!”

Let's go see her.
Soon the fairy tale is told, but not soon the deed is done.

Another...10...20...30 passes. .40 lines:

“Guryan whipped the gelding under the hind legs...
“Wait, don’t be a fool!..”

.... She smiles“...

...Guryan is getting sick"...

...The gelding swam"...

- “Wait, I’ll squeeze it well...

- Bi, don’t pay..“

This is where the story ends - “from folk life.”
They began to talk juicily and cheerfully about narbyt.
No. 3 BROTHER. 207

“People’s Artist Sobinov” will appear at the Bolshoi Theater and sing:

- “Vanka fell in love with Tanka...

A “people's writer” will write something like this, for example, “Polka-
Mazurka" and strives to go where "proletarians of all countries, unite."

We search, we search with searchlights in the sky, but there is rubbish under
legs,we don’t see!..

Eh!..

Alexander Neverov.

04
BIBLIOGRAPHY
p>.

BY ST. PETERSK PRINT.

(Aesthetic consolations in earthly adversities).

Before us is “Records of the Petrograd State Transport
Nogo Theatre,” Gaideburov and Skarskaya. No. 51.

The spirit is Voepo-Petrograd, with a salon aroma. "Raisa Pavlovna,
everything is lofty, everything is beautiful.”...

Here is “In memory of V.F. Komissarzhevskaya.”

“Vera Feodorovna, like the young soul of Lermontov’s poem?”
was enchanted by the sounds of heaven, and they constantly broke through into the intonation
tions of her earthly voice. To earth she brought with her some unknown
hitherto I have spoken about the bliss of sinless spirits.”...

“I evoke the image of Vera Fedorovna; I remember facial features, gestures,
voice, gait, manner of playing. I compare her with everyone I've seen before
and I see it now, admiring and admiring it at times. And more and more clearly
becomes: Vera Fedorovna was somehow special and wonderful.”...

In subsequent verses on the same topic - a complete assortment
Otaro-aesthetic nonsense: “A wave of lilies, lilies of the valley and roses”... “And go-
losa. like a song, an enchanting power."... "The divine soul will not shine
light“... And so on and so forth.

We really like all this, because obviously someone is
consoles in everyday troubles. But you don’t like it at all anymore
when with this Nepo-estate nonsense they are trying not only to “enhance
give birth,” but also to benefit the worker, saying something absurdly
passionate about “blood, anger, violence and human suffering.”

Thus, in Gaideburov’s article about a certain cultural “celebration”
nick" we read:

“In how, through the rough, tough, clumsy appearance of the Russian
of the Bolshevik worker, the great human essence emerged under the invisible
the touch of a righteous human soul that touched her, affected
the truth of this holiday“...

Come on, citizens of the “Itinerants” (where? back?) according to the old
remember to ache for “brother worker”, for “brother worker” you feel sorry for
not funny, but tales about the “divine soul” and “righteous people”,
brightening with their “touching” will be useful to you! :

14*

[874E No. 8

>
—
[5

The editors of another Petrograde editor behave much more witty
magazine - "Abraxas" (why not "brekekekex"?), consisting of the former
singer of the estate “chimes” M. Kuzmin and A. Radlova. These citizens
created a new doctrine - “emotionalism”, without worrying at all about “brothers”
tsakh,” and thus they are consoled.

What is “emotionalism”?

Judging by the declaration of "Abraxas", this is not a movement forward, but
“upward expansion” is, moreover, not a class phenomenon, as the “rude” people think
and the cruel Bolsheviks,” and, of course, “general, nationwide and worldwide.”

They live “emotionalists” - “unique exaltation” (ku-
chanye of gentlemen and priests). “Divine, crazy mind, it turns out—
a guide to their “thoughts”.

And finally:

“Dealing with unique emotions, a minute, an occasion, -emotional

nalism recognizes only exclusivity, phenomenality, and rejects
general types, canons, psychological, historical laws and even “...

— go ahead, go ahead!—

“..And even natural ones, considering the law to be the only obligatory
death“...

And even then, is it necessary?

Another Petrograd magazine - the summer "Orpheus" (not in "hell"
Is reality unsightly for “emotionalists”?), edition
"Petrograd State (?) Philharmonic".

The magazine has a scientific appearance, an objective look, even notes
church hymns are appended at the end, and the most scientific conversations
about music. Looking more closely, however, it is not difficult to see
behind this appearance there is the most ordinary noble aestheticism, for
the musicality of veyudu is interpreted here as melody, and even
the mad Scriabin looks like Mendelssohn in the magazine.

One thing must be done justice to these musicians: the masters
rub glasses with verbal aesopia,

Here's an example:

— In memory of N. A. Sokolov.

“Severe norns, in charge of the destinies of Russian artists,
In recent years they have shown very energetic activity. Support
caused by the extreme heaviness and gloominess of material and everyday life
conditions of our time and a huge variety of all kinds of
Chinese accidents in rotationlife of an artist, composer,
music teacher of our days (and people of other professions), activist
This is expressed in a terrifying number of prematurely suppressed

penitent life paths of Russian musicians. Sinister Witches-
housewives! their destinies, every month, they mercilessly tear the thin thread connected
g:

№8 BIBIOGRAPHY: 213

conveying through the body shell someone’s thoughts, feelings,
movements of the creative spirit with the world of material reality.
Of course, psychic energy, even if transformed into symbolic
potential“...

I. t, d, it. d.

So thin, so thin that... all the threads are crawling out!

Petrograd is a nest of reactionary aestheticism.

Dezhe is more or less worthwhile, appearing in his non-partisan
printed, painted in the colors of aesthetics.

This is Sergei Radlov’s brochure, which is not bad in places——“Articles
about the theatre,” Central Cooperative Publishing House “Thought,” 1923.

The author talks about the “theater of a single will” (not new, but even now
not very much about: about “mass productions”, about “verbal improv-
"visualization", "electrification of the theater" and other not bad things. But
all this does not prevent him from parroting dozens of bourgeois
trifles that we have long since thrown into the trash.

These are: “aesthetic emotion” (interpreted as “pleasure”);
“charm” and “admiration” of “beautiful proportions”; "seduction"
worthy performance"; "sweet yoke of love and death" (borrowed
Sologub's bathroom); “callous and heartless natures”, which
The only thing that can “captivate” is bringing “bare pieces” onto the stage
reality"; and finally: the "passivity" of the viewer in a boxed
theater of the “united will” (the will of the actor, it turns out!), as some kind of indisputable
false theatrical canon...

It's boring in your world, gentlemen!

Amateur.
with V.F. Pletnev. Instead of a review, we print a letter -
LENA" to the editor of Comrade N. Remizov,
# ,

He was a big-ass member of the RCP—from Saratov.

Moscow, 1923

Dear comrades!
Today, on the anniversary of the execution of the Lena workers, I am at the water lift;

Saratov station made a report about Lenskoh execution. Served as material for me

book by T. V. F. Pletnev, published by the All-Russian Proletkult in 1923.
Despite the fact that it was absolutely impossible to cover everything in an hour and a half
material contained in the book, however, this book gave a lot
paintings and performances for me and my comrades from the water-lifting station. I
I don’t remember a single report of mine at this same water pumping station, so that t.t. workers
listened with such interest and attention. I now imagine one hundred
Rick the toolmaker, who, with all my reports that I gave, usually

07
214 Ohm. No. 8

he always sat with his head down and his eyes closed, so that it was difficult to determine—
does he listen or fall asleep; this comrade was sitting at the same report, and his eyes
glittered, he looked at me point-blank and shook his head to the beat. Particularly attentive
Actually, my comrades listened to excerpts from the book when I read them some passages,
e.g.: “Legal and everyday situation of workers” (testimonies of workers’ wives about the “right
first night”), Comrade worker’s story about the execution on April 4 (“The situation at the prison
claims from the beginning of the strike until April 4th“).

Despite the fact that my comrades were very tired, they were ready to listen
as much as you like.

It seems to me that this book is very good - not only as a historical
description, but also for workers to read. I really regret only one thing in it
there are no good photographic photographs of the area where the execution took place, and of the
type of Lena mines. And, if you can express it as a wish, then good
It would be nice to include these photos. The testimony of the photographer Ko-va states that
he took a picture of the execution, but the police officer took the camera and the negative from him. Not me-
It would be crazy to look in the archives of the secret police and find this negative. Photographs
will help comrade workers imagine the harsh climate of Siberia, and all those rivers, oh
which are mentioned at the beginning of the book and which are an empty phrase for the workers.

Personally, I would also like to point out that at the beginning of the book there are a lot of numbers.
In Tables 1 and 3 you can give the numbers of the results, and tlooks like a scientific work
or to an official report. The worker will skip these columns of numbers. They are needed
condense and explain more. Still, you definitely need to insert into the book:
what role did party workers play in this strike? In general—
the book is good. s

From comrade Hello N. Remizov.

Comrade's answer. Remizov. Dear comrade!

I consider it my duty to respond to your review of my book about the Lena events.
tiyah. Judging by your review, the book gave you material for an interesting report
about the Lena events. That's the way it should be. The Lena events cannot be
interesting for our comrades. Speaker, well Bolar and having worked -
Any material about the Lena events will always be interesting. I completely agree with you
that the book contains a number of shortcomings. Haste to work with lack of time
me (the entire book was written in my free time, which I had
very little), of course, affected her.

But I would like to answer you on the further lines of your letter.

You are not satisfied that the book begins with numbers. This is the same remark
Other comrades also lamented to me, but I stubbornly adhere to the opinion that the beginning of the book
there's nothing wrong with the numbers, and here's why.

Those 3800-4000 poods of gold that were mined in Russia were worth the position of the
barrels on Lena. After all, in other places the situation of gold miners
it was no better, except that there were no salvos on April 4th. This production is estimated
amounted to 7 (approximately) billion rubles in gold, i.e., a two-year budget
Russia during tsarism. 7.

I wanted these numbers to attract the reader's attention. To
bare figures of the era of tsarism, calm, cold witnesses of the cruel
exploitation, he learned to see life. We are not used to reading numbers, first of all
vykh, and clothe them with flesh and blood, secondly. And you need to learn this. First
part of the book is structured in such a way that 1!/5-2 pages with numbers do not tire, but further
This presentation becomes livelier, and you will still remember that gold is mined in Russia
moose is about 4,000 poods per year. And this is alreadyresult. There is also further
lifrs, and they are not criticized, because the interest of events is already pushing towards them.
%#°

No. 8 BIBLIOGRAPHY, 215

This is the first thing. Second: the book costs just 2 thousand, due to the haste of release,
came out without photos; in the remaining 7 thousand - with photographs. Therefore,
This deficiency has been eliminated. And one more note. The book contains a play like
an artistic summary of events, and I would very much like that fellow speakers
in the history of the Lena events it has always been emphasized that the history of the labor movement
provides inexhaustible material for artistic creativity. I think this is over-
extremely important. Our struggle for a good fifty years has yielded powerful
pictures, which are the task of the proletariat to understand. And in celebration of this, I turn and
to you and to all comrades with a request to remember this slogan thrown by the Pro-
Letkult back in 1920: “The history of the labor movement must become material
for the artistic creativity of the proletariat." Otherwise I did everything I could.
If the book requires a 2nd edition, of course it will be corrected and will be more complete.

From comrade Hello V. Pletnev.

“AUTOMBER THOUGHTS”. Society of Young Marxists, working-

The fortnightly society is now under the general leadership of the Socialist. Aka-

“October Thoughts”, No. 1-3, 1923, Demii, aims to study and develop

There are many problems of modern culture related to

connected with the process of creating a new communist society. PSdrob-
but the history of society is in “Bulletin of the Social Academy” No. 2.

The fortnightly journal is still in the form of a newspaper. In the leading issue of the first issue,
assignment of tasks: to cover issues of the theory and history of Marxism, news of science and
technology, art, methods of self-education and research work, intend-
but excluding issues of politics and economics covered in the general party and
Soviet press.

The first issues of “October” are not yet firm steps. Most raised
questions are isolated, random in nature.

An attempt is made to formulate two main lines: the theory of revolutionary action
activities and methods of self-education and researcheating work.

In the articles of Comrade Khazov: “A pressing issue” (No. 1) and Comrade Pharmacist “From the craft
cabinet" (No. 2), an interesting and important question about the method of
dah scientific and creative work. The need for urgent preparation of young workers
scientists—Marxists—causes an attempt to systematize the existing scientific
material and organization of creative work on the principle of collective, factory-
no work. The fight against the chaotic growth of literature, against parallelism in research
dedicated work, with subjectivity of assessment for systematic, standardized
production of scientific goods

“Science, in its general methods of organization, has lagged far behind production.
of material goods,” notes Comrade Aptekar,

“Two conditions for victory on the ideological front”—put forward by Comrade Mayorsky
(No. 3, “Conditions of Victory”); first: everyday communication between young communists and older
ry party members, joint work, joint club life, etc.; second;
factory method of scientific labor with division of labor functions-{ „electrification-
cation of scientific work“, i.e. industrial organization of science.

This question in terms of mastering knowledge is of enormous importance for us.
of today's communist youth. It wouldn’t hurt for our “people” to think about it.
"sweet" magazines. a

` Further serious and deep study of it is necessary without
only the youth themselves, but also the old party members. "October Thoughts" puts forward it
quite timely, and in this ability to smell, to catch significant and important
in today for a breakthrough into communist “tomorrow” states his
vitality and capacity.

108
216 Egov: m. } No. 8

This is still just a groping process—with good guidance and support.
on the part of more experienced comrades it will turn into fruitful construction.

At the same time, on its pages, “October” probes many others
questions. Polemics on issues of art, illumination, have developed and are gradually growing.
discussion of issues of literature, theater, from different points of view within Marxism.

Questions are being worked out byta, coverage of the work of Social. Academy
Institute of Red Professorship, bibliography.

With Navitsy. number the fortnightly increases its content and diversifies
image. It is widespread among workers (the company has branches in workers
areas) and students.

The disadvantage should be considered some scatteredness, incoherence at times
raised questions. Hopefully, in time there will be: frameworks and working out
There is consistency and orderliness.

Gamza.

m

"LEF". Before us" are the first two books of the magazine "Levoy"

Arts Front”, published in Moscow in the Gosizdat edition.

Journal of the Left Responsible editor—V. V. Mayakovsky. To the editorial office

The board includes: B. Arvatov, N. Aseev, O. Brik, B. Kushner,

Front of the Arts. V. Mayakovsky, S. Tretyakov, N. Chuzhak. Over the last two

this is still the first attempt, it seems, by the left front

Gosizdat. 1923 “get your own apartment.” The first attempt is self-
definitions.

The evolution of the left front, from the first experience of futurism with revolutionary
street to the proclamation of the production principle in art - trace-
is stated by one of the theorists of the magazine, N. Chuzhak, in his articles “Under the sign
life-building” (program) and “Tasks of the day” (discussion).

Futurism, as a school, it turns out, is denied by Lef, and is only recognized
futurism as an aspiration.

“Art,” Lef believes, “since it is still thought of by us as time-
variable, until complete dissolution in life, unique, built on
the use of emotions, activity is the production of what the class and people need
honor of values (things).”

The theorists of futurism in 1918 denied the so-called “idea of things”—
“Lef” is now introducing an amendment:

“Since ideological values built on dialectical awareness
world, are accepted by us (like material ones) only from the angle of their purpose.
nia, - to that extent there can be no talk of negating the “idea of things.” .

Not only a tangible thing, but also an idea, a thing in a model - is the content of use.
art of the day.

Hence the acceptance of all kinds of experimentalth art, from bio-mech-
preparatory steps before building peace through dialectical mono-
delimitation (constructivism, symbolism).

All kinds of fantasy, utopianism and other holo-ideological, metaphysical
quirks that are not based on the dialectical refraction of reality, fabricated
are busy.

So the “distortions of reality” that repelled the theorists of 1918—
from now on are recognized as still necessary stages of creativity, but in the presence of only
identifying and confronting contradictions.

Under the sign of effective life-building comes the science of the proletariat about the use of
art. Under the sign of overcoming, as opposed to the expelled weak-willedness of perception,
tia—his attitude to the process of art-building is built. Under the sign of the strong-willed
sharpening of the apparatus, in the striving for communism—we imagine the art of the day.

No. 8 BIBLIOGRAPHY.

g
—
=

There is not a single school, just as there is not a single reception needed by the proletariat
in general. “Everything is good in its time,” everything is for the sake of promoting the class towards communism.
nism - in due dialectical correspondence,

One imagines a moment when real life, saturated with art,
refusal, will throw out art as unnecessary, and this moment will be a blessing
futuristic artist, with his beautiful “now you let go.”

Until then, the artist is a soldier in the post of social and socialist
chesical revolution, - in anticipation of the great breeder - stop! (N. Chuzhak. “Under
sign of life building”).

In the second, already controversial, article by the same author, there is a critical analysis
prevails:

“The Futurists were the first to bring art to its production stage.
They were the first to set a new proletarian task for art.

This is as much their merit as those who have not escaped reality and have not
afraid of its tasks, as well as luck, as if they had fallen into the orbit of the greatest in history
ries of social revolutions of the movement and splashed out to the shores of communism.”

The position of the futurists is obligatory.

“It’s not enough, friends,” the author continues, “to instinctively reach this or that
problems, you need to really pose it. I

„It’s not enoughFinally, set a problem, you need to learn how to solve it.

Are they learning to solve the problem of art-production posed by the proletariat?

``production (and not art in production, as this problem of underproduction was interpreted)

leaders-re-appliers) our comrades futurists?

Yes, they are studying—students.

And they learn—the budding ones. .

But do the older heroes learn from futurism?—Hardly.

Whether the averages are growing is not clear.

Some are going through a serious crisis and are not “creating”—one must hope that they will resolve
their loss, having denied so much, before the difficulty of a single imperative
the road will pass, and they, these leftists on the left front, will be able to reforge in the crucible the re-
checks of their own, no longer frightening, swords on the “ploughshares” needed by the era... Others - dis-
sing \1e 4er U00e| 510%, as they sang five and ten years ago... And then say:
“God’s bird doesn’t know”...

We are talking only about the front of speech (in the old way - “poetry”), because on this
The theoretically most equipped, although the most
less effective in practice, the core of futurism - and this is the left-core of the coming
it is quoted to call now for “direct action”: according to the issued production
Sky bills - pay!

Enough already, comrades, to spread copious words throughout the tree, “you-
boiling some kind of brew from love and nightingales,” while the tongueless
the street takes production by storm with silent chords.

It’s enough to hang around in grandma’s Nivas, condescendingly scolding
Paunkare, - while waiting for unfound iron rhythms, sluggish
Plants and factories are tongue-tied.

Enough, finally, to supplement this with declarations about communism and production.
stze: competing in phraseology with young comrades from “October” - at that time,
how our newspapers wave their hands with impotent, deaf-mute slogans - when in the
The production theater writhes in the midst of non-repertoire exercises.

It's time for the language hammers to really get to work on verbal equipment
things. 5

It's time for the constructivists of words to actually join production. ,

It's time, it's time for the Lyan children to have more fun - aboutwind up the tired ones
senior heroes of futurism.

/©9
218 US, No.: No. 8

Next, the question is raised about “necessary and unnecessary art of the day.” Built
on the negative side, the article pays more attention to art - “not
necessary”, namely:

“The point, of course, is not what other art we need to create, but what
what elements of available art need to be collected and cultivated. This is special
baya and not only a subtle and complex, but also quite a cumbersome task.
By virtue of the whole magazine.

That's why it's easier to answer the question: what kind of “left” art is these days?
no longer needed. } .

First of all, it is completely insufficient for art that, at least
in the most avant-garde way, but purely externally and from the outside accompanies the re-
al life. Art as an accompaniment, even the most revolutionary
- there is nothing before the task of the simplest merger with the process of production
quality,

Further, art that merely agitates and “subjects” is just as insufficient.
“goads”, but does not yet build the necessary “models and samples”. All the more so
it is sufficient (and not necessary) for art that promotes models from 1918
(pathos, demonstration, conversation is nothing other than “over the heads of governments”). Con-
The specific production tasks of the day dictate very specific ones to art
assignments.

And finally, such “futuristic” art, which
Roe, based in the philistinism and in everyday life, tries with an unmotivated leap
in the “Gridth International” or “eternity” to cover up the contradictions of the present.
Futurism, which does not build a daily bridge into the future in accordance with the tasks of the day
tomorrow—no one except the “revolutionary” philistines needs it—for such a futu-
Rism is not only not “inventive”, but also represents only a new way
escapism from reality, a new kind of passeism.”

The period of brotherhood with the Ursa Major has passed for futurism.
What is needed is no longer hand waving in “eternity” (in fact, already, fatally, in “eternity”
ra“), and the most stubborn workers’ construction in “today”. ‚

InfusionCommon working (not just in uniform) art is not a dream: it is already here,
there. You just need to be able to see it without being afraid of its dispersion and lack of name.
You need to find it where direct, real life is built.”

In conclusion, a call to organize the collection and study of elements of this
art needed by the working class, inevitably associated with < the most active
wedging it into everyday life.

The topic is very extensive and completely untouched.

It seems, however, that it can be illustrated by the practice of the current “Lef”
will not succeed, if only because there is already a discrepancy between the practice of “Lef” and
with his production theory is quite large, and it is unlikely that
hope that in the future these planes in the magazine will somehow organically

get closer.
P. Kultsky.

her. Where to look for the most modern prose?—Of course, in
almanac. "Circle" For example, a modern village is recognizable
b: I b.

Almanac No. 2. 1923. on the sawdusted volost executive committee, as once in the lit-
rature she was recognized by Remizov’s goblin and mermaids, and then the nomads came
rufous Slozesa—“Rasseyskie” according to the modernized Leskov—serapions
It's like hell!

Zotem: the cataclysmic mass character of the era—towards this there is now a general tendency
our prose, to mass character, to mass action,—
the revolution itself teaches this.

No. 8 BIBLIOGRAPHY. 219

A single tension of millions of wills, the most spontaneous penetration into an inert life,
the swiftness of the general movement, the loss of the personal, the struggle is not two on two, but—-
era to era.

Where are the plots?

Therefore, despite everything, Pilnyak is understandable. One grief: revolution, that's all
same, ahead of our prose. Revolutionary reality is unthinkable without movement.
development, and such that yesterday, which was necessary yesterday, when
slowness becomes harmful, like the primary enemy.

And what about our prose—this same one from “The Circle”?

Mass action as a literary device, thanks to the obligatory
echoes from Pilnyak to Nikitin—to Malyshkin—to Budantsev, turns into the main
innovative everyday life, in other words - into literaryeveryday life. Why?
Because the same content material is chewed. As a result:

Mass action is a true compositional device; and - mass action -
stamp.

It is recognized, for example, from Pilnyak - Nikitin - Malyshkin - Budantsev -

- according to the spectacle of railway traffic in a la Kerensky chaos:
the constant louse, bagworm, woman; the tension of revolutionary reality
news - based on the collision of armored trains “named after Bela-Kun” and No. so-and-so. fi-
guru commander, etc.

You can name many such poster moments that are canonized
modern prose into a categorical imperative for everyone who wishes to write about
revolution and Russia. ”

Canonizing an art form is bad and harmful, canonizing
the content is even worse. This means, to put it mildly: cutting off your own legs
in the middle of the road—i.e. — to stall essential development.

These, in a nutshell, may be the general reasoning regarding the collections of the “Circle”...

And yet, the second issue of the almanac is curious, just like that: not because
he adds something new to the previous number—hardly—but because
in it - the revolution, the new Russia, the power of the revolution, its little things, its posters, many
her people are from the check, from the provincial executive committees...

But why so much “stamp”?

For example, about Budantsev (novel “Mutiny”). Sometimes it’s even difficult to say how ©
Budantseve: it’s like you point your finger in one place and end up in something completely different...

- to Pilnyak again.

True, Budantsev is simpler, which gives his novel the meaning of “his own
heritage", many of the most definite techniques of "Pilnyakovism" developed by Pil-
not sharply and on a grand scale, somehow: the tension of mass chaos and hyperbolic
long-tone mixture of geographical and time planes—taken from Bu-
Dantseva has a more modest, episodic meaning, but. nevertheless, in many ways the scheme is ro-
mana “Mutiny” resembles the Pilnyakovsky layout and Pilnyakovsky use
knowledge of plot material.

As usual in “post-Pilnyak,” we encounter in “Rebellion” the same breaks in the action.
actions with posters and signs, the sametechniques of discontinuous presentation - not entirely
a significant movement of the plot, but in throws and chunks, in no way. measurement of non-pro-
proportional: one page is the hero’s letter, the other five lines are the coverage
judgment about the era, etc.

In places in the novel there are poetic influences, for example, in the methodological
a technical description—before shooting—bursts in:

“It gushed, darted,

dis-
rained down
what -
then
crackling like shards: it crashed."
220 gomya 8

It would be good for poetry. Signatures of provincial military commissars and army commanders,
kazy, signs and posters, all in bold print, are on many pages of the novel
used by Budantsev very advantageously, not in such a “detached-philosophical” way
plan, like Pilnyak’s, but in the organic surroundings of the plot.

At one point in the novel it says exactly this:

“The reader is excited by slogans, exclamations and bold typefaces.”
tami."

Budantsev remains more organized than Pilnyak
plot action, great simplicity of presentation - not without the pressure of abrupt and
short speech,

Serapion Nikitin is presented in the almanac with the story “Night”. Someone said
hall about Nikitin that he “suffers from speech incontinence”—this is a peculiar quality
developed in “Night” (from which Nikitin, it seems, began as a fiction writer) to a rich
necks of congestion: you don’t know where the authentic raw smell ends
land and village women, and where speech indiscipline begins,

If “Pilnyakovism” is characterized by special techniques of composition in
the name of the action is not of persons, but of an era, then Nikitin is characterized by his word, bold,
interior, Russian, earthen, arable - in a word, as they say, colo-
rit.

Under the sign of mastery of this word is the entire literary worldview.
Nikitin's work. This is interesting: as a word, as if the understanding soul takes possession
peace.

With his first story, Nikitin created his own persona as a master of folklore, Od-.——=

however, after “Night” they have already written many stories, and they are too similar
at each other. In addition, Nikitin often happens that the plot is completely
disappears behind folklore, like Tuesdayoriental accessory. Here's "Pella" from "Vomit-"
of the new Fort,” and now—“Night.” Who cares? Different characters? But they are not visible.
— Only about the Russian land in the Slavophile-Asian coverage of the dis-
Nikitin sings. Only about the immanent revolution on peasant land,
- not about proletarian, communist and urban.

So “Night” is not about the collision of two enemy armored trains “named

Bela-Kun" and "named after L. G. Kornilov" talks, but only about women, men and
woman's land...

The prose part of the anthology “Circle” ends with stories: Ognev
“Shchi of the Republic”—about how moonshine brings back goblin and Baba Yaga to Russia—and
Fedina “Anna Timofeevna” is a living and everyday tale of old times.

In the poetic material, “Variations on a Gypsy Theme” by Pasteur stand out.
naka, especially the last one - “sacrocosmic”, where over the course of three stanzas
new stanzas - “dark bedrooms”, “sphinx in the Sahara”, “in the snows of Arkhangelsk”, “black-
the Prophet's week" and "day on the Ganges" participate in the general movement.

Vic. Bloom.

Efim Zozulya. Efim Zozulya, who recently published his first

STORIES <. T. 1. volume of stories, stands a little apart from others

and Ed. "Circle". 1923 participants in Krugovka literature - this is neither good nor

m r ? bad, he’s on his own, he’s primarily a draftsman

narrator. The feuilleton plot and three-page plot gave birth to Zozulya easily and
painless. :

He even has a story (“The Reporter and the Prophetess”) about how “in a hundred:
a girl of about eighteen with gay, smart, hysterical
eyes. Stayed in an average hotel, went to the tabloid weekly
nickname and declared, crossing her thin white fingers on her young, tender breasts:

— The war will end in November. I am a prophetess."

(

6% +

them
A
t yy

No. 8 BIBLIOTRAPHY,

And then the arrogant reporter Kalmanovich appeared, and...

- “George, dear... I’m so lonely... I have no one... except you.”...

The whole story is reminiscent of Doroshevich. But this is a simplified Zozulya. In that
There are better ones in the “first volume”: for example, “Jean Carmine” - the story is masterful
postrfrom scraps of the diary of the miniature actor Carmine and tells about
love-jealousy.

Revolution?

While it is affecting Zozulya, mainly in some American
nization of the plot, short, quick and easy. Zozulya is a household worker. The revolution is not
loves everyday life. And, however, at moments their paths in literature meet, - then Zo-
Zulya shows that it can give a small, but sharp and tense frag-
ment of it, revolution, as, for example, “Trifle.” This is the best story in the entire
book.

You can remember this “comrade Diamond” as a real meeting,
chairman of the executive committee, an inconspicuous and iron man, savvy in the revolutionary
Lucia, one on one disarmed a disorganized detachment of partisans and
that again armed him - for the revolution.

“The Story of Aka and Humanity”, “Studio of Love for Man” and “Death”
main city" showed that Zozulya may be able to fantasize, but
it lacks "reach"...

\ V.B.
"OUR DAYS". Now there is one for all art almanacs
Art almanac. the law is modernity, Modern is the writer who
3; writes about Russia... no later than five years of its revolutionary
State publishing history. This is the most common idea, and:
1923 - why not write about revolutionary Russia?

these, for example, Tredyakovsky, just as they are: archi-
in the pre-Petrine language according to Chetya-Minea and with the constant Russian “Khresyanin”,
which, as you know, is very inert and difficult to develop?

It's not so far-fetched. There are no Tredyakovskys. But, it’s true, there is a “deserved”
“real writers”, like Muizhel, Trenev, Chapygin --- who doesn’t know them from their thick
intelligentsia magazines that once served populist idealism
and E about a Russian peasant?

They don’t harm anyone, but the young class that organizes them hardly needs them.
speaking his own artistic and prosaic language, nothing to do with
has no Slavicisms.

Machine, labor and city - through the free self-determination of the most energetic
class - organizing a new life. This organization must acceptparticipation and
a literary word, and not to wander somewhere on. the outskirts of pre-revolutionary life,
albeit in the presence of a revolution...

If we add a little more to the names of Muizhel, Trenev and Chapygin
Vsevolod Ivanov, Lidin, and from the young ones Gladkov, then you will get what is called
appears in the almanac “Our Days” - a rather vague connection!

The third issue of the almanac, fortunately, is filled with a good half of the story
Vsevolod Ivanov’s “Return of the Buddha” and Fyodor Gladkov’s story “Fiery
Horse."

This time Ivanov’s plot is calmer—not about the civil war, but about
how Professor Safonov, on behalf of the Council of People's Commissars of Northern Communes, transported
in a freight car from St. Petersburg to Mongolia the statue of Buddha and did not bring it, died in Semipalatinsk
Tina steppes under the blows of the Kirghiz - raiders, who both the statue and the professor
They broke it, and the professor’s camel was taken home. Professor Safonov—the man
venerable, but the revolution measures people by its own yardstick. Professor Sa-

Sh
22 — BURN. No. 3

Fonov, either through inattention or due to the nature of his occupation, did not make a revolution
Lucia, but he only cooked potatoes on a stove, and the revolution disposed of him,
like a small sliver, she threw him into the car, some blind performer
diplomatic idea of the People's Commissariat of Nationalities, and destroyed somewhere on the hot Kyrgyz steps-
pah - completely unknown for what. :

People who are not with the revolution are completely useless people.

This plan was carried out by Vsevolod Ivanov with great care.
to the everyday surroundings and warmth!” and, and the most superfluous person.

Some schematic presentation, with general simplicity and long names -
tions of each chapter, in the manner of this--

›knitted products, some speeches about archaeological research and
from the Russian Red Army“—

make reading the story convenient and easy.

The language is calmly descriptive, not even characteristic of Vsevolod
Ivanov.

Fyodor Gladkov portrays the “Fire Horse” of the civil war in the village,
in the Don region—the picture from the inside is illuminated by the tragic effect of living “psycho-
logical“, under Dostoevswhom, heroes, where personal characters, however, have almost disappeared
huddled under the elements, but live...

Such a production makes the story stand out from the already hackneyed “mass-
shchiiki“ or such sheets of strategic diary as Zazubrin’s novel...

The story is drenched in blood with artistic intensity, and the places where
hanged, where they are shot, where stakes are driven into bodies, they are not used “so-so”,
not for self-sufficient ‘description, designed for readers, uncritical
nerves—

but in connection with the organic revelation of the plot.

The story is given a unique, regional flavor by the use of
Rozhsko-Stanichny dialect.

It is also worth noting a short fictional essay by S. Semenov, who managed to
It's a good idea to grow from self-taught peasant writers to a good fiction writer and
apologist for the proletarian revolution. It is known that peasant writers,
howling the scrip and bast shoes of the Russian village, they often fall into the Slavophile-people
nic trance, completely immersed in “perhaps”, in the “peasant peasant” and in the idea of “uni-
wifely, slave, but holy Rus'."

S. Semenov, who himself overcame it, talks about overcoming this idea...
in the story “On the Steel Tracks,” which is a railroad
a conversation between a wimpy zemstvo doctor and “Comrade Sergei”...

Apart from all the artistry, it's worth reading. Lidin - "A Tale of Many"
days“ - as always, schematic, fast and interesting in a feuilleton way.

The poetic material of the saornik is presented very palely: Mandel’s poem
strain “Sons of Aimon” - completely dead patterns, only in appearance made to
French legend, and there is no trace of the lyrical load that is so
characteristic of Mandelstam, the sadman of the departed artistic world. culture.

Even Tikhonov is paler than himself, and Kolbasyev, the young poet quietly
Novsky sweetness, completely loses himself behind Tikhonov.

Kusikov gave a completely stale poem.

Maria Shkapskaya...

But this is where we can finish about the collection “Our Days”.
Siberian.

to

a:

B, would be YaAb
s yy

her

m
No. 8 BIBLIOGRAPHY. 223

„SOVREMENINIKI". Collection "Contemporaries", published by the group
Almanac of artists. prose. Moscow fiction writers are even more diverse in composition:

Ed. “Moscow is more specific than “Our Days”.
fiction writers." "Our Days," as best they can, still tell about the
1923 these days, And “Contemporaries” are not averse to delving into, for example,

measures, in materials...
Franciscan Order.

Modern craftsmanship? Not at all. V. Veshnev in his story “Brother
Juniper“ in the most archaic, biblical language simply talks about how
the woman seduced the monk.

There is an idea embedded in this, like the idea that if you have not known sin, you will not be holy.
tym. - And don’t!

Or, for example, this is how a monk with a woman on his bed is described: “Long brother
Juniper performed his mercy, and much more he and the woman were pacified
love than by satisfying the flesh, and then he left this woman and went
away from her, staggering from exhaustion and the great beating of the heart“...

The whole story, which claims to be modern, causes great bewilderment.
ness!

Peter Vagin talks about bathing young ladies:

“Let's go swimming!” Nadya shouted.

Three of them had a wild streak...

... Only M. Kozyrev and A. Yakovlev are modern in the collection.
Why are they next to the monks?

heresy nicely depicts the “Retreat” of three Kolchak officers
in the taiga.

From the point of view of mastery, Trisha’s excerpt catches our attention:
tova—“Exiled to Art”—an experience of illogical and asyntactic prose, on
manners of the early futurists E. Guro and B. Lifshitz.

\

Yesenin. Yesenin has already firmly entered Russian literature. He
FAVORITES becomes a classic. Publication of his poems by Gosizdat as
> By myself. would officially assign this position to him. But then
Moscow. 1929, what is collected in this collection was hardly “chosen” by ourselves
< ; Yesenin, because many of the best things were not included in it
poet, such as “Sorokoust”, “Confession of a Hooligan”, etc., must be because
that some expressions in them seemed pictorial to the guardians of “morality”
bathrooms in the poetic lexicon,

The book was compiled according tomainly from early works taken from
collections “Radunitsa”, “Dove”, “Treryadnitsa”, in which Yesenin acted as
"peasant" poet. Therefore, the characterization of Yesenin from the book “Favorites” is not
may be exhaustive. So, for example, at least the metrical construction of verses,
according to a rough estimate, it is expressed in the following figures: out of 52 verses, co-
compiling the collection, 50%/) are written in trochee, 270// in iambic, 17/ in free verse,
6'/›--dactylem. Meanwhile, in relation to everything written by Yesenin,
the number of free verses outside the meter should be significantly increased, because more
later pieces not included in the collection were written primarily in free style.
home The same must be said about rhyme. In this collection, rhyme gram-
tic, whereas in later things it is more often consonant.

Complex technical and compositional tasks posed by Russian poetry
over the past two decades, are alien to Yesenin.

Compositionally, Yesenin's verse is constructed in the most simplified way. This—
a series of four-line stanzas united by rhymes of the first line with the third, second

Siberian.

I)
224 t FR s: No. 8

swarm—from the fourth. In order to achieve compositional unity, he often joins
runs in the construction of stanzas to the “ring”, also very primitive, although widespread
strange reception. Complex forms of rondo and sonnet are not found in his works at all.
He has no original rhythmic variations that break the monotony of the meter.
a lot. The sound texture of the word is also not characteristic of his verse.

The main core of Yesenin's poetry is the image. Imagists claim
that where there is no image, there is no poetry. Every thought, feeling, idea is only
then they are worthy of being called poetic when they are clothed in the flesh of artistic
new image. The image is the body and soul of poetry. Yesenin’s image has a number of special
richness. The pictorial side of his images is the rural landscape.
The metaphor of an image is usually built along a descending line: a more general phenomenon
order and greater significance, he endows the properties of phenomena for more than an hourtnyh
and lesser significance. Previous poets usually personified an everyday object
into some “sublime” image. Yesenin does the opposite. He's the sun
compares it to a wheel, the moon to a frog. A distinctive feature of his images is
their anthropomorphism. He endows nature with the properties of humans or animals.
Autumn for him is a “red mare”, the wind is a schema-monk who “crumples the foliage along the way”
road stupas,” the month is a lamb, the hut is an old woman, the sunset is a red swan, blue
dusk—a flock of sheep. “No one would even think that straw is also flesh,”
he says, but he “gets up” so constantly that the road can start thinking about “red-
this evening”, that “an old maple on one leg” can guard “blue Rus'”,
that a month can float and drop oars on lakes, etc.

The coloring of Yesenin's poetry is typical of him; reactionistic: evening - green,
grass is blue, dusk is blue, Russia is blue, “ash is green from a pink oven.”
Remember Degas, Monet, Renoir. The most common color is blue. At 52
poems in the collection—blue, as an adjective to define iveta, meeting
occurs 26 times. At one point he even admits that the blue “sucks his eyes.” Zo-
Lotoy occurs 24 times as a color, blue, green and white—
11 times each, red - 10, pink and yellow - 7 each. These are exactly the colors that
loved by the impressionists. The love for gold brings Yesenin closer to the Russian people -
great art from ancient icons to handicraft toys. Black color, banished
completely from the impressionist palette, also not typical of Yesenin. How
coloration, it occurs only twice.

Yesenin’s extreme subjectivity of perception also brings him closer to the impressionists.
and sketchy manner of writing. Most of his things are just sketches. In landscapes
Yesenin is not a person, as a specific character. Inspiring nature. he
as if he dissolves a person in it, endowing it with human means. No
in his lyrics, very intimate, and Eros. Erotica is alien to him even when he is from
“constipation” introduces someone too “risky” into poetryzi image. In this
In the collection, only one poem is dedicated to a woman. All his love is on-
headed to the homeland. Not to Russia, but to Rus'. He is looking for the most tender words
for its definitions: “My land, thoughtful and gentle,” “Oh, Rus', raspberry field,”
“Golden Rus'”, “Oh, you” My Rus', dear Motherland”, “Meek Motherland”. And just like
this was encountered more than once in previous Russian poetry, this motif is intertwined with that
Sky. But his melancholy. in Russia - “merry melancholy.” “And Rus' slumbers in its melancholy,
loy". His sadness is joyful sadness; “Blessed is he who marked with joy your shepherding-
"Such sadness." This is not patriotism, because patriotism is a worldview. It's just de-
rhubarb love. Not a thought, but an emotion. “If the holy army shouts, throw
You are Rus', live in paradise, - I will say: there is no need for paradise, give me my homeland.” This ingenuousness
This village love, cheerful in its melancholy and joyful in sadness, is far away, everything
well, from Blok’s broken love for Russia. For the latter, emotion is inseparable: from
reflections, delight - from pain, love - from patriotism - from

It would be in vain to look for a philosophical worldview in Yesenin’s poetry,
especially expressions of the class ideology of the peasantry. He is essentially not cre-
No. 8 BIBLIOGRAPHY. 225

styansky, but a village poet. He is a village landscape painter, intimately in love
into nature, like the Barbizon painters. In Yesenin’s poetry not only is there no
foundations of the worldview, but, on the contrary, it reflected anarchist psychology
declassed semi-intellectual. “If I weren’t a poet, then I probably would have been
a swindler and a thief." And: “I myself am a robber and a boor, and by blood a steppe horse thief.” „To me
“I wish I could stand in the blue steppe at night, somewhere with a flail.” “But I’m also for someone-
I’m cutting under the autumn whistle.”

Our poetry reflected the psychology of the landowner, the intellectual, in the proletarian
poetry - worker. In the person of Yesenin, she reflected the psychology of a “hooligan.” Until now
Since then, this psychology has found expression in ditties, non-book poetry, oral
noah, folk. In the epics of sleep, it was wrapped in heroic images. "Hooliganism"
Yesenin does not containin itself > dark pathological sides. This is not Apacheism. and
not a decadent breakdown. This is village bravado, the cheerful enthusiasm of the village
the guy that Yesenin essentially is. As in the village, as a boy, he
was a “horse handler” in fights and fun, which he tells you about in his autobiography.
fii, and now he wants to “win” in poetry. Despite the threats “for-
cut * - he is a great romantic and “lyricist”.

Yesenin’s poetry is ideologically pseudo-folk, as it was with Kol-
[tsova, Nikitina, Nekrasova. The modernity of sleep coincides with increased nervousness
ity, but ideologically it is far from modernity. Revolutionism is alien
to her essentially. She is passive, not effective. The revolution received responses in her
like distant lightning, like a reflection. There is only one poem in the book “Favorites”
The work is dedicated to revolution. According to their attachments to the old, Tsedovskaya
village, with a plow and a plow, he is just as eclectic and a direct parallel, for example, Bu-
Nina, as a poet of the passing life of a landowner. Yesenin does not call himself new
poet. This is his distance from the futurists and even his conflict with them. He's all

°in old, rustic, wooden, “hut” Rus'. as Klyuev called her in verse,

dedicated to Yesenin. “I am the last poet of the village,” he says to himself, “and when
a new “iron guest” will come to the fields and the tractor will replace the “foolish horse”, then
his songs no longer “live.” In his significant “Sorokoust” he celebrates
commemoration of the old village, receding into the past, as the place faded into history’
shchichi life. .

Having sung a song, as he promised in one poem, about “the oven, the rooster,
cows,” he stood at a crossroads. Modernity is passing him by. "You are the heart
he made a song for the hut, but did not build a house in his heart,” he says, turning these words
to Klyuev. But with no less reason I could attribute them to myself. Charter "to live"
in his native land,” he goes. “to look for a wretched dwelling” and, like other eclectics,
turns back into the past of history (“Pugachev”) and there wants to find those images that
which modernity does not give him.

KnifeLife moves on, and with it love songs.

However, Yesenin is only 27 years old, and this characteristic is the starting point

has only “Favorites”.
` Nikolay Tarabukin.

Ilya Erenburg. Ilya always had beds under

the influence of some poet—who

"THE REFLECTIONS". “NUPINA UNBURNING < of course, stronger and more original-
Petrograd, 1922. In his first poems he

was strongly influenced by Blo-
ka, after which it was uninteresting to read.
In the book “Poems about Eves,” Ehrenburg not only became close, but also slavishly
imitates not only in simplicity, but also in form, the French poets Wildrac,
Ilbert Jacques and others. :

15

A:

uch
226 o 2 No. 8

We can definitely say: for many books the author had no origin.
gynality, one’s thoughts, i.e. your worldview.

This can be seen from his book, published after the October Revolution, “Prayer
about Russia." In this pathetic, wretched book, he “slobbered” about Russia, after copious amounts of
many tears shed by others...

The book “Thoughts” also doesn’t say anything special in terms of forms or technique:
technical achievements, and even original, new ones, repeats what was said long ago
by others, much more meaningfully, words and thoughts.

After five years, Ehrenburg just came to his senses, he just wiped his eyes from tears:

; ... “Do you hear - it’s time.
I renounce, I renounce three times
From everything I lived yesterday“...

But, unfortunately, he cannot give up everything “yesterday”. He, like many,

those who have accepted the new world are still in a “draft”—“neither here nor here.”
"Born yesterday, I love
Yesterday's wisdom."

Or:

“I cannot prophesy about the future.”
Ehrenburg does not know where to go, which shore to land on, because:
"Truly, great and meager

"The Beginning of an Unknown Day."
“We did not know the new schema,
Revolution, your rules are difficult.”

The book “Thoughts” does not stand out clearly from the total number of published poems.
Its “dignity” is a timid renunciation of the old and timid recognition of the new.
Ehrenburg's book is a turning of a dying face to a new world. IN

. Erkman.

Revolutionary Pozzia. in the four-hundred-page “Reader”
Klamator“, who collected a littleIsn't it the world revolution?
POTA ABALAMATOR" crown 'grooves of walls avenen m OBN
Volume 1. one cannot take away the well-known cultural and educational usefulness
ness.
Gosnadat. Uiranna, 1923 Pushkin is useful in the workers' club, and so is
Demyan Bedny, any competent literary instructor who can explain is useful
worker that many things were revolutionary in their time:

And Hrieetos, and Byron and the freedom-loving Lamartine...

It is important to give each of them its place in its socio-historical environment.
de: an attempt by “Reader” to unite Delvig on one “revolutionary” platform,
and Verhaeren, and Bryusov, and Mayakovsky - requires a very careful attitude towards oneself.
solutions, not to mention the fact that this connection is, of course, completely impossible,
if we apply the signs of genuine revolutionary art of our time,

r how you apply them, for example, to the Wanderer, to Balmont, to Gorodetsky,
to Nemirovich-Danchenko, to YaAda Negri, to Alexei Tolstoy and others, and others,
placed in the collection only because their names follow one another?

Even Bunin, the magnificent master Bunin, now writing in Paris:

- “Do not accept the coming new

In her disgusting nakedness,”—

placed in close proximity to the lyrical singer of the Red Guard revolutionary
Lucia, Alexander Blok, and with the original barricadist Barbier!

- It’s easy to cloud your brain with such proximity. One of two things: or “Reader-Reciter”
“I wanted to show that the “best idea of humanity” about freedom is not alien to all eras

neo. omg

8 BIBLIOGRAPHY. 221

{the most universal and arch-philistine production)—the collection achieved this goal
entirely, or... -

But the “Reader-Reciter” collected the poems, called them revolutionary, the “Reader” wrote
strives to cultivate literary studios precisely with poems, phenomena not only
ideological order, but also artistic existence, persistently attributing to them
revolutionism—this is not far from artistic propaganda.

Therefore, there is an urgent need to give yourself a more accurate
even in the very term “revolutionary poetry”. All the “Reader’s” misunderstandings stem from
cabins from toofree use of this term,

- not only with the term, but also with the method, not only with the method, but also with the general
understanding of the revolutionary nature of art today...

From the “use” of the “Reader” of the husks of gray literary philosophies, a large amount can come out.
new artistic abuse, the authors of poems were drawn into the collection only
on the basis of the “best idea of humanity”: here are the classics—Pushkin, Lermontsv;
‘symbolists—Balmont, Bryusov (the constant “bricklayer”), Blok, Sologub; American-
the democrat Whitman, peasant poets - Nekrasov, Nikitin, Surikov and such
high ones of a new kind, like Klyuev, Yesenin, Oreshin; span of poets—Gerasimov, Alek-
Sandrovsky, Kirillov, Originalist, industrialist Gastev, from nowhere Pavel
Golub, Lukyanov, Mitrin and others. A little bit of everything. All the material is like garbage
with pearl grains, packed in one cover and: - they say, poyo “revolutionary”
no" poetry!

There is no place here to comment on and evaluate the m-thodology of the revolutionary
art without quotes, but we can repeat once again that only the method, the sum
techniques in processing material - in what is now popularly defined by the word
“construction”—provides the opportunity to revolutionize art. Poetry, once
exists, is revolutionized through linguistic material: it only stands. attentive-
It is necessary to turn towards the leading poems of our time, and one can be convinced that
that the revolution is tossing and turning there, tearing at the seams and through the seams of the language ma-
material of old poetry, its phrase, its utterance, its rhythm, for only through heavy
linguistic genera comes a revolution in poetry...

The “Reader-Eclamator” doesn’t want to know about anything like that. Interspersed with text
names like Verhaeren, Mayakovsky and some others do not change the situation,
remaining throughout the entire collection under the abyss of artistic idealism
ical liberalism and uncertainty.

Of the preletkult poets represented by the “Reader,” the most industrial
following Gastev and Kirillov and feels like the creator of “things” Alexan-
Drovsky - from the early period, however:

„Black jackets: and toepki -
floating in the gray fog.

„.pressed clenched hands

in your pockets. h

In dark corners

fear."

Aleksandrovsky was able to describe the “Uprising”. Many of his colleagues still
time is described. But what next?

Once upon a time, people used to amuse themselves with reciters in provincial living rooms.
and the skinniest girls memorized them. The revolutionary “Reader-Reciter”
will be constrained to become such a howl, having neglected the correct way to select the revolutionary
tion material.

There’s absolutely no point in talking so much about this reckless collection,
if by an incestuous selection of contradictory poetry, he would not
would be so harmful to the assimilation of the truly revolutionary poetry of our
days, behind which there is major organic social significance. a h

. Cue.

15*

ov silosiechevysst
228 E: No. 8

th

“MILESTONES OF OCTOBER”. The same descriptive, last year - not without talent -

, „ Comrade prose emerges from the pages of literary and artistic
Edition NAC 9 of the almanac “Milestones of October”, published by Rabochiy.
x However, the collection could just as well have been published in any
some other publishing house that does not bear the obligatory revolutionary brand...

But, for example, the “Book Publishing House of Writers” on Nikitskaya Street hardly complied with
would indicate a similar orientation: ‘’storytellers from “Vekhi Oktyabr”—Novikov-
Priboi, Yarovoy, Berezovsky, Neverov, Bakhmetyev—all the authors are not old, working
melting, not too devoted to Chirikov’s traditions.

There is nothing to deny: the freshness of the work is visible in the actual setting of the plot,
and in the revolutionary gestures of the heroes - such, for example, is the story “Mother” by Berezovsky,
not devoid of abruptness of presentation... But all descriptions, descriptions:

"Midnight."

But I couldn’t sleep.

My hands ached from running around and from unusual work.
There was an alarming pounding in my chest.

She looked with open eyes into the black void.
I listened to night sounds and rustles.
I was going over the day’s impressions in my memory.”...

The wanderer, Chekhov, moods, everyday life, to which the author submits weakly and
contemplatively, only in places trying to pity the reader or force him to
favorable ideologicalto the conclusions - this literary Socialist-Revolutionaryism is hardly
coincides with the intense essence of our reality, striving in every possible way
overcome the inert “everyday life” and dominate matter. But Berezovsky
only describes.

The chronicler-feuilleton style of writing doesn’t help much in the situation either.
with abundant ellipses and monosyllables, through a compressed throat, conversations...

And the above examples of abruptness, completely unrelated
with a real dynamism that does not exist, many pages of the story are turned into canoes.
the reduced boredom of the diary: she stood up, then sighed, then sat down, etc. d.

Still better than Novikov-Priboy, presented in the collection with the story “Under-
water workers."

Everyday person and describer of external action, while favorably avoiding
psychological moments, the author develops in his story a noticeable “material-
the subtlety of the language and the cheerful invitingness of the image: the old lady is significantly redeemed.

At least like this:

“Moor to each other with strong ropes of love, so that from your
two bodies turned out to be one eight-pound body.”

Pale, barely noticeable pattern - but the linguistic desire is already manifested
to things and love for matter under the muscles... In some fragments Novikov-
The surf truly grows from a subordinate description of everyday life to a creative
great skill. The laconicism of the phrase is justified, if not by the development of the plot
action, then in any case a timely and quick change of landscapes is sufficient
definitely fast so as not to bore the reader. }

In addition, the landscapes are interesting: a submarine, swimming near mines; for
behind the scenes - war, disaster under water, rescue...

Yarovoy's story is also interesting.

Poems in the collection are presented by Obradovic, Kirillov and Sannikov,
not counting Praskunin and Nechaev - completely inconspicuous bushes.

Here's from Nechaev:

“The poplars whisper lovingly
.And misfired lightning flashes.
Oh life, oh life! How good!

That's not how you should say it, Nechaev.
P. Kultsky.
No. 8 BIBLIOGRAPHY. 229

Mikhail Volkov. There were times in homespun Rus' when birds
ZAKOVYKA“ boorish people flew freely fromedge to edge of the calico
": passers-by and buffoons. From village to village, from
Stories and fairy tales. city to city, along dusty pillar roads, yes

Publishing house "Forge". Moscow, 1923 storytellers wandered along the forest reserve paths

s of epic tales. A lot was said about these chatoos
With us, you can’t put it all in a small note. I like the time when it’s crazy
people who are mired and confused in the words of flattering priests, who are anti-
Our time is exuberantly free and revolutionary.

Mikhail Volkov, a student of the literary studio of the Central Proletkult, tells
in their flowery tales, in the language of folk storytellers, about the “Christian” people,
about his naively stupid beliefs, about his ridiculously comic misconceptions and aspirations
“about freedom and freedom.”

The author knows thoroughly what blood flows in the veins of the types he describes.
freedom-loving free spirit, he knows in all the ramifications of his life and customs
diggers, dragging out the dragging rigmarole of a dirty little life from day to day. Via
the prism of the events we create is refracted as it departs from the clear sun into the grave
gloomy and wormy.

Here is the old day old grandfather Klim with the stocky grandfather Andron (from the story “For-
kovyk"), enlightened" by time, preach from the pulpit... ("So, that means God
no... and it never happened... it’s all just an invention... that means everyone can rely on themselves...
It’s another matter - not alone. try it, take it yourself“...). Here’s grandma Fetinya, so crazy
Helpful and fearful, warming unquenchable lamps in front of Karl’s portrait
Marx, considering him to be an unknown “saint of God.”

- "Granny is dreaming - who would it be? Razi of the evangelists? Who is it? A little
It looks like Mark, but there’s no lion’s head nearby... Isn’t it Stratilates?
warrior, but you can’t see the military attire”... (“Miracle”).

But the most remarkable thing about the book. Volkova - fairy tales from the “life of heaven”.
They are so edifying and so easy to read that they should be republished
in millions of “cheap” products for distribution among the choking
in the religious intoxication of workers and peasants. This is the need of our days,
andthis would be a colossal achievement. For every one that reaches
consciousness, the anti-religious word is a spark that incinerates the decaying mold of humanity
stupidity into God's predestination and heavenly life.

Nikolay Reshchikov.

N. Lyashno. N. Lyashko’s prose is strong in its strict

x stuy, - no v.krutasov, - rhythmic sonorous

"RAINBOW". ness, richness, images. Things are chipped
Stories.--Book two. The cheny is strong, the finish is up. little things, I feel the word

Publishing house "Forge". Moscow, 1923. The word is spared. Throughout his work the beat beats

. a fiery, strong stream of healthy lyricism. What about

no matter what the author writes, he always has a lyrical sound in the background, merging with
action, with description, becoming their organic inevitability.

The book contains 6 stories and 3 excerpts from the big story “With the Flock” story
a young underground revolutionary worker.

Of the 6 stories in 2 pre-revolutionary life, in 4 the pulse of transition beats -
new era. One of the first to attract attention is “Malevo” - a big story that
I just want to call it a steppe lyrical poem. Depicted in "Marev" steppe
noble, earthly people grazing a flock. Simple, uncomplicated, with poetic purity
with a healthy soul, clear as the steppe, they are inseparable from it.

The story-poem smells of steppe smells, herbs, and sounds like steppe sounds.
The steppe floats alive in both the lunar and sultry haze, the night divination of the steppe creeps
230 OR 4. No. 8

pi - whispers, rustles, sighs; the mounds rise, the hot, unsteady distances tremble, the stars
The sun is gone, the fog is swirling. Lyashko feels nature with a keen ear, accurate
keen eye, subtle sense of smell.

I. Pchelintsev.

Prosper Merims. In 1825 AU togA >. vet t

Tsuz writer ospe erime ( ыы
“CLARA GAZOUL THEATER”. or "Theatres O N IKON Comedy"
Gosizdat, Petrograd. 1923 diantki". In structure, this is a typical heroic
theater, in places I definitely touch
grotesque True, Clara Gazul’s “theater” takes place in a feudal-
Catholic and partly later, in addition, the author is not completely free from feo-
distant ideas, but since the satirical slantpredominates, then the lungs are not
additions to the text can be paralyzed without any difficulty during production. Plus
the book is that it provides a rich heroic repertoire, only in some places it is needed
being remade by the director. Satirical debunking. monarchism and class
radicalism, great intensity of action and strong speech jargon - all this
provides good material for productions, especially in the “conventional” theater. With our

the non-repertoire re-release of these short percussion pieces is timely.

Ch.

"CULTURE". From when did our distrust begin?
to the provincial book?
Collection of literature and science. — A sort of drab cover, somewhat
Odessa, 1923, wrapping leaves and signature: Tmutarakansk.
This has been the case for centuries. At least it's time
already reconsider this “tradition”.

But these waste paper collections, full of vulgarity and worthlessness -
ties, like the Odessa “Culture”, exist only to confirm
wait for a provincial book tragedy.

And most importantly: what does culture have to do with it?

No one should look for it in Ovcharenka’s translations of Felicie Moamo’s Novels.
unknown Parisian:

- “Cecile struggles with the wind for a long time: he is terribly indiscreet and wants to look
into all the hiding places of this laughing pink body, which is so carefully hidden
even a girl.” ^

If Odessa resident Ovcharenko likes Montmartre chansonnets in prose, then in this
It’s not the fault of culture in general, nor that other, iron one, which doesn’t give a damn about
half-naked Parisians.

Poems by Semyon Olender? .

- “The girl is already a prostitute,
left eye - bruise.
Is this just a joke?

and I’m a crazy weirdo?“.

Odessa Vertinsky should also get a black eye: both for culture and
for graphomania, and for Vertinsky, and for the fact that he is too obvious the son of a cheerful
cities...

Under the name of the stories, the collection contains clumsy student exercises.
from prehistoric times: not a speck of dust, not a blade of grass, not a pebble from the new
Russia was not included in the register of Odessa writers...
r char given

No. 8 BIBLIOGRAPHY. 281

It’s good that they cooperate while in the darkomo-private “publisher-
comradeship."

The book should not get into Odessa workers' clubs.

But in order to somehow give yourself “government” trustworthiness,
Deribasovskaya’s “Culture” nevertheless provided some of its pages and memories.
Martynovskiy’s reports on the trial of 16 Narodnaya Volya members in 1880 (Kvyatkovskiy, Shi-
Ryaev, etc.), and a note about Korolenko, and an information article “about the problem
ablution“...

This material should not have been used in this place.

A. Ivanov.

ib -

_PROLETKULT
this fries = —

ALL-RUSSIAN PROLETKULT.
IGi 1\ SESSION OF THE ALL-RUSSIAN PROLETKULT Central Committee.

The 3rd session of the Plenum of the Central Committee of Proletkult took place on November 17 - 21 last
1922.

24 thousand people came to the session. (including: 12 workers and 12 intellectuals, from
There are 20 of them communists).

In addition to the Presidium of the Central Committee, Proletkults were represented at the Plenum: Mos-
kovsky, Petrogradsky, Ivanovo-Voznesensky, Tverskoy, Tula, Ekaterinburg-
Sky, Izhevsk, Saratov, Rybinsk, Smolensk, Rzhevsk and Org-Bureau
Ukrainian Proletkult. Representatives of
Agitprop of the Central Committee of the Party.

The Plenum heard the following reports: 1) informational, 2) organizational
ny, 3) reports from the field, 4) report of the Presidium of the Central Committee of Proletkult, proposed
in a number of reports on Departments - Scientific, Arts, Literary Publishing, Financial
Household parts and the Secretariat.

Work in progress. ^2988 was divided into sections: organizational, club and
financial and economic, as a result of which the Plenum adopted a number of
resolutions, their main provisions are as follows.

1. Resolution on an organizational issue.

1. Plenum, stating that since the 2nd Congress of Proletkult there has been no
there were no changes in the sense of the position of Proletkult in the general system of state
authorities neither legally nor in fact, nevertheless, considers it necessary to clarify
thread is the position of Proletkult, both in the field of organization and in the field
his practical work.

2. Proletkult in its work is the apparatus of the Party in its struggle for
ideological front.

3. Developing its cultural and creative work, Proletkult provides its
strength, experience and achievements in the field of cultural work to trade unions.

4. The relationship between Proletkult and state bodies of Enlightenment is determined
provisions established by general legislation.

5. In order to carry out practical and methodological work, Prolet-
the cult has scientific and methodological departments and commissions, educational and production
educational (demonstrative and service) creative teams, scientific
studios and clubs, clubs and other institutions of the same order, publishing house
issues of theory and practice of Proletkult.

6. Work among the masses is carried out through Trade Unions with the assistance of its charter
update by party officials and by agreeing on the distribution of work
with Political Education, in relation to the already established practice of the Moscow
Proletkult.

7. Plenum, pending clarification of the general financial situation and detailed

new study of the issue of restructuring the work plan, and in connection with this, the bodies

Proletkult in the center and locally considers it inappropriate to convene at this time
moment of the All-Russian Congress. *

//8
EE AND EE r a: yy

`

236 r a U 2 No. 8

As the main preparatory work for the Congress, the Plenum entrusts the President
dium, in the interests of clarifying relationships with government agencies, trade unions and
Party, to modify the statutory provisions on which the
Proletkult (adopted in 1918 and now outdated) and develop a new charter,
based on the following basic provisions:

a) The task of Proletkult is to identify and concentrate scientific and artistic
creative and creative forces of the proletariat hidden in its mass.

6) Development of theoretical and methodological issues of construction
proletarian culture. b

c) Development of the cultural-
educational events:

In relation to the changed conditions, taking into account the task put forward
before the Proletkult demands of life, the Plenum outlines the following main
provisions for further works and changes in the structure of governing bodies,
working apparatus and institutions of Proletkult:

1. Proletkult takes upon itself, in the general mass of tasks of cultural construction,
activities carried out by government agencies and trade unions, specifically delineated by its
dachas range of works.

2. The first priority should be to create an ideological cadre
trained, communistically seasoned proletkultists, as well as trained
training of practitioners (organizers, instructors), both in general work and in
special areas of artistic and scientific order.

3. Propaganda among the masses of the ideas of Proletkult, broad agitation for the struggle
on the ideological front on the basis of revolutionary communist ideology.

4. Grouping of revolutionary cultural forces and their use under
leadership of the Party on the front of the fight against bourgeois ideology,

5. Deep study of issues of proletarian class culture, largely
highly debatable, carrying out this work, both from the point of view of ideological
gical, and from the point of view of direct practice (scientific and artistic
part), thereby testing the principles and methods of work of Proletkult,

I. Forms of work of the Presidium of the Central Committee of Proletkult.

When constructing and carrying out its work, the Presidium of the Central Committee must strictly
take into account and not ‘lose sight of its main tasks as a governing body
activities of the association of local Proletkults.

The Presidium of the Central Committee must concentrate all its attention on the work first
turn organizational and instructor, as the main one, as well as in development
scientific and methodological problems, systematization of materials being studied
issues, accounting, summing up and regulating the experience of places, maintaining the possibility
but closer and regularly conducted communication with localities, control, correction
formation and direction of their work, taking into account forces and means, training workers in
all branches of work and the rational distribution of them among local spans
cults :

11. Forms of work of local Proletkults.

The Plenum states that the majority has flownYou didn't complete the tasks
summer Plenum in the sense of the connection between artistic work and club-wide work.
The lack of club work in general among Proletkults leads to amateurism and failure to:

free separation from the masses. Mutual representation and demonstration of achievements.

are not sufficient for this. The club-wide audience provides a constant influx of new
fresh forces and direct and systematic control over work. Artistic
work on the resolutions of the Congress should move closer to mass labor

No. 3 PROKHETVULT 237

that; e.g., a live newspaper, court and other forms make it possible to quickly respond
at the moment. Limiting yourself to artistic work only is wrong.
but an understandable task. :

In the future, the club should become an organizational center for practical
the work of all Proletkults. Where the premises of Proletkult will not allow the expansion
to establish club-wide work at home, all studios are attached to one of the districts
ny or factory clubs, which are under the control of Proletkult entirely
or, at least, where Proletkult is left with the organization of the production
the entire pedagogical part of the club’s work: ‹ludies, clubs, lectures, concerts,
Only in certain cases can studio students*scholarship holders be retained
especially with Proletkult. Proletkult takes the number of clubs depending on
the ideological and organizational forces at its disposal. Means
for club work must be received from the field. If funds allow,
It would be better to have your own general instructor.

No Proletkult should exist in the future without a club. In ka-
accept the Moscow Agreement as a basis for organizing club work *
Proletkulta with MGSPS and the draft agreement of the metalworkers' union.

In the field of studio work, confirm the introduction of the principle of a single studio
dmi. At the end of the curriculum of a single studio, the studio is divided into sections:
Geo, Iso, Lito and Physical Education (the latter can continue its work in the long term)
neyshem). At the end of the unified studio, sections of Theo and Lito move toproduction
real work. In relation to Muso, classes are instrumental, as an end in themselves,
are unacceptable and can only exist as auxiliary means for the choir.
Orchestras of folk instruments and wind instruments remain only for service
places This conclusion is dictated by the fact that in the musical field creative work can
can be manifested only in composition, the rest of the work in the absence of its
repertoire is reduced to zero.

When recruiting teams, you should pay serious attention to general
training and at the same time strictly observe the principle of non-introduction to industrial
letcult of persons of non-proletarian origin.

Fellows should be reduced to a minimum.

In connection with the intended provisions; offer to local Proletkults
now begin to revise the collectives, leaving in them only the persistent and
seasoned proletkultists, which is dictated by the growth of the ideological front.

Groups of fellows, reduced to a minimum through selection
the most capable and pro-let-cult students, should in short
the earliest possible time to be transferred to self-justification.

The educational work of teams should be based on coordination
with production, and the latter should not have a negative impact -
tions on the content and formal identification of works.

The organization of performances and orders must certainly go through
executive bodies of Proletkults.

All amounts generated by the collectives are at the disposal of the Pro-
letcults.

Having switched to the path of production work, studio students must take on
yourself, for each time a specially established number of years, a certain obligatory
attitude towards Proletkult.

1\. Resolution on the report of the Presidium of the Central Committee of Proletkult.
Having heard the report of the Presidium of the Central Committee, the Plenum, taking into account the existing

considers the objective environment in which this work took place to be political
and the practical line taken by the Presidium is correct.

9
238. me No. 8

In the future, it is necessary: the greatest refinement and concretization of the ideological
gical and organizationalnizational clarity of Proletkult’s work and strengthening from
Presidium of the Central Committee methodological influence on localities, organization of central
courses for training proletkult workers, speedy development
programs of scientific circles, studios and clubs for local Proletkults and non-medical
continuous deportation of programs already developed by N.O.

The Plenum draws the attention of the Presidium of the Central Committee to the necessary changes in the
ranter of the magazine "Gorn" towards greater transparency and accessibility for
proletarian masses.

Due to the extreme lack of Theo's repertoire for clubs and local Prolet-
cults, the Department of Literary Publishing and the Section of Art Criticism under the Presidential
the Central Committee dium needs to pay attention to the selection and publication of such

In terms of economic work, it can be based on strictly economic
four; inappropriate expenditure of funds on enterprises that cannot produce significant
tive benefit, can in no way be allowed.

In order to establish the most vibrant and close connection between the center and the places and
back, consider it necessary to periodically exchange the center and places in detail
informational letters monthly.

The 1st session of the Plenum of the Central Committee of the All-Russian Proletkult on March 7, 1923 was
convened urgently, in connection with the end of the survey Agit.-prop. dept. Party Central Committee
Proletchultov’s work in the center and locally. s

In addition to the Presidium of the Central Committee of Proletkult, 14 people participated in the work of the Plenum.
representatives of local Proletkults, representatives of Agit, prop. dept. Party Central Committee
and Glavpolitprosveta.

The Plenum adopted the following resolution:

Practical forms of work of Proletkult.

1. Taking part in the construction of proletarian culture and making it our
the general task of identifying, formalizing and systematizing the worker’s creativity
class in science and art on the foundations of revolutionary Marxism, Proletkult
conducts practical work in the following direction. at

2. Based on the practical combat tasks of the Party and Trade Unions and relying
based on the experience of their cult organizations, Proletkult limits the scope of its activitiesflax-
sti, setting as its task:

a) identification, concentration and processing of creative forces from the thickness of the mass,
development of creative activity of the masses themselves, concentration and preparation of forces
to carry out this work;

6) generalization and systematization of the experience of workers’ cultural organizations, scientific-
methodological and methodological elaboration; .

c) collection and systematization of already available search results
towards the development of new methods of presentation and construction of various
scientific disciplines on the foundations of revolutionary Marxism. The same goes for
to art - generalization and critical assessment of new quests and achievements in this
regions;

d) verification of the methods developed by Proletkult through practical experience
the work of workers' cultural organizations;

e) widespread propaganda among workers of the ideas of proletarian culture.

3. All work of Prsletkult is limited to the area of extracurricular activities:
Parties, Trade Unions and Komsomol among adults, teenagers and youth.

Within the framework outlined above, Proletkult:

No. 8 LLT SINGS 239

a) groups revolutionary Marxist cultural ‘forces’ and uses them
according to the directives of the Party to fight on the ideological front, unites circles
and scientific organizations and in individual branches of art, practically working
workers for the construction of proletarian culture;

6) organizes central and local scientific, methodological and methodological

Chinese and creative devices: studios, clubs, instructor courses for training

cultural workers, commissions and seminaries for the study of individual issues, re-
periodic meetings and conferences on specialties and individual issues;

c) carries out tasks of the Party and cultural bodies of Trade Unions to develop
teaching plans, curriculum development, preparation and publication of methodological
manuals;

d) takes upon itself, on instructions from the Party and Trade Unions, the organization and leadership of
club work in Trade Union clubs;

e) has its own publishing house;

f) Establishes connections in the center with the Social Academy and other scientific and artistic
pre-governmental institutions, slavefrom which can be used in the work of Pro-
letkult.

a Report on the work of the Scientific Board.

The Scientific Department under the Central Committee of Proletkult has concentrated its work since
the last All-Russian Plenums mainly focused on the development of the program for
concepts for local scientists and the All-Russian Central Scientific Studio.

Currently, the general curriculum of the studios and
a number of programs for! individual disciplines.

The next issue of “Gorn” will contain the following materials:

1) Lesson program for a local science studio with an explanatory note.

2) Lesson program at the Central Scientific Studio with explanatory notes

squeak.
3) Course program: “theory of proletarian culture” with explanatory

a note. E
4) Course program: given in the history of culture."
5) ь у уы in abbreviated form.
6) "" % "class struggle in Russian and world history.
7\ Program in economic geography.
8) th „political economy,
9) „_ natural history.
10) E „ the most important moments in the history of technology.
11) “„ elements of astronomy and geography.

: 12) E „ mathematics.

: 13) “„ organization of oral and written presentation.

} 14) „ Constitution of the RSFSR.

15) th „ history of socialism.
16) * RKP.

17) General curriculum of Instructor courses on cultural work with explanations
body note.

Compiled: the following messages:

“Organize scientific circles.”

“Organize science studios.”

Instructions and regulations on the election of workers and pedagogical
Russian personnel in scientific studios.

A series of popular science lectures for clubs has been compiled. Most programs
was compiled with the direct participation of members of the Scientific Board with the participation of
hiring outside specialists in special cases.

180

240 iem. r. No. 8

The work of the Scientific Board was expressed, in addition to the above, in the compilation
a number of theses and reading reports on them—on the next page. topics:

1) “Tasks of Proletkult”.

2) “The material base of capitalist society”,

3) “The material basis of the culture of transition.”

4) “Proletkult movement”.

5)“Plan of reports at the Central Proletkult Club.”

6) “Cultural tasks of the transition period.”

7) “Art in the system of proletarian culture.”

8) “Art and production”.

9) “The main tasks of the workers’ theater.”

10) “Program of work of the Art Department of the Moscow Proletkult”, etc.

As special assignments, they were carried out jointly with the Central Committee of Proletkult
next works:
1} Proletkult platform in the field of science.

2) > her in art.

3) Theses: “proletarian revolution and proletarian culture.” at

In the ongoing printed and oral discussion on issues of the proletarian
movement, the Scientific Board participated in both a number of articles and speeches at
debates in MK, 1st State University, Central Club named after Cali-
Nina it, d.

Some of the materials related to this work are published in this
least.

The proletkult conferences that took place during this time at local
served in part as representatives of the Scientific Board.

Visited: Kharkov (twice), Tula, Podolsk, Ivanovo-Voznesensk, etc.

In addition to the usual ongoing work, members of the Board took part in the re-
editing the magazine “Gorn” no. 6 and 7.

PUBLISHING HOUSE OF ALL-RUSSIAN PROLETKULT.

The publishing activity of the All-Russian Proletkult continues increasingly
to expand further and further. This became especially noticeable since the conclusion of the special
agreement with Gosizdat. For a relatively short period of time, published
The government has published a number of books, poems, fiction, plays,
issues of proletarian culture, theater and literature; several sheet music released
publications from the repertoire of Proletkult studios.

Measures have been taken to publish the Gorn magazine more regularly.

Due to the significant increase in demand for proletkult literature
from party, professional and military organizations in Moscow and pro-
provinces, circulation of publications for the last six months from 3,000 copies
increased to 10,000.

Over the past month, the following came out of print: “Culture in the capitalist era” -
A. Lunacharsky, “O checkmate”erial basis of culture in socialist society“—
E. Preobrazhensky, “Experience in the Theory of Painting” N. Tarabukin, “Guide to
her -I. Sokolova, "Workers' Club. Principles and methods of work"—

Pletneva. "

Books are intended for publication: on the theater - Arvatov, on painting -
Nikitin, on music - Malnev, 3rd collection “Songs of the Revolution” and a whole series of books
in fiction.
“fe ZCH.

her NV, SV

r:
m.

MOSCOW PROLETKULT.
CENTRAL STUDIOS OF MOSCOW PROLETKULT.

There are currently two studios: theater and fine arts.”
Due to the reduction in the influx of material resources from outside, the volume of work was
narrowed As a result, by the fall of 1922, the following studios were liquidated: music (choral)
and literary (only methodological centers have been preserved). Necessity of partial:
the transition to self-financing also affected the nature of the work of the retained chairs
due to the educational creative part, the work of production should have been strengthened
natural.

1ST WORKING THEATER AND DIRECTOR'S WORKSHOP.

A new plan for theatrical work was put forward by the Moscow Proletkult
in the spring of 1922 and at the same time approved by the Plenum of the All-Russian Proletkult,
as a desirable “experience”.

The basis was: on the one hand, the principle of using forms so-called.
“small theatrical art” (cabaret, music hall) and circus as the most important forms*
further, subject to their proper elaboration, social impact; on the other hand
Ron, the principle of educating a new actor and director—future organizers
actions not only on the theater stage, but also directly in life (rallies,
processions, festivals, etc.). It is not possible to develop educational work in its entirety.
seemed possible, since the center of attention, by necessity, needed
was to pay attention to the production part. Of the many introduced in the summer of 1922, teachers
methods of teaching (educational practice) are left only: physical education, bio-mechanical
Nika, acrobatics and voice staging. Training comes first
ny moment. The theater group is working hard on the buffoonery"On
“every wise man is satisfied with simplicity,” according to Ostrovsky (free text by S. Third-
Kova, directed by S. Eisenstein). An excerpt from this production (Act 3: “Joffre
going on a hike”) was demonstrated for the first time on April 2 in the Great State
National theater on the day of the anniversary honoring of V. E. Meyerhold. In general, the spec-
The tackle was staged in May on the premises of the Moscow Proletkult. In parallel
with this main work of the 1st Workers' Theater, we worked on: “Prince Hagen”
Sinclair (shown on the premises of the Moscow Proletkult in March 1923) and
“Gas” by Keizer (performances given in the regions). Renewed and shown in areas
also “Lena” comrade. V. Pletneva.

During the period from October 1922 to May 1923, in addition, 40
performances by studio students in 6 districts, at workers' faculties and at the invitation of individual organizations
organizations) with concert programs (including numbers: “Labor”, excerpts from
“The Dawn of Proletkult”, “Strike on the Whites”).

Further works of the 1st Workers' Theater are planned: “Mobile” - Gladkova,
“Gas”—Keizer (remounting), “Prince Hagen” (remounting). Renewed
in a revised form “The Mexican” (dramatization after J. London). Developed-
Scripts for filming are also produced. ; :

In close connection with the work of the 1st Workers' Theater, the work of the Director's Ma-
sterskikh. In the center, students of Directing Workshops pass together © te-
educational team, practical disciplines of the educational part and a number of theoretical
Russian disciplines in an expanded scope (history of class struggle, scene studies,

z 16

".

m
242 t. No. 8

art criticism, cultural history, modern literary movements, issues
proletarian culture, natural science, etc.). In the areas, some of the commodities
Practical directorial work is already underway (at the Food Club, Peka-
her, at the 2nd State Confectionery Factory, at the Zagorsky Club). Students for the summer
workshops go to the Provincial Proletkults to organize theatrical
no work in the field.

In accordance with the operating principles of the 1st Workers' Theatre,n classes Direction-
Sersky Workshops are based on a comprehensive study of movement,
as the starting point of acting. Represented by students of Directing Workshops
The Moscow Proletkult expects to have theatrical
instructors-directors-propagandists, whose task is to establish
a firm line of theatrical work among the broad working masses.

PAINTING WORKSHOP.

Change, in the spring of 22, of the general work plan of the Moscow Proletkult
was also shown at the Art Studio. Easel painting workshops have closed and laboratories
Rator work was firmly oriented toward work directly in production
agricultural character. The transition to self-financing, of course, had an impact here as well. Development
developed by Proletkult employee, artist Nikitin, lesson program
was designed for a long period of time. The need to perform a number of
urgent orders were somewhat disrupted by the systematic implementation of these programs in
life, but still the programs are fundamentally invariably carried out and, thanks to
building them on the principle of direct use of laboratory skills
laborious work in production work, give the Studio the necessary
stability in resolving specific production tasks.

In parallel with the passage of practical pictorial and constructive dis-
Tsiplin, the Studio conducts theoretical classes and seminaries on issues of art
conducting under the general leadership of comrade. N. Tarabukina. This work of the Studio is used
investigative in nature (use, for example, of descriptive statistical methods)
the same way when studying works of art), and its results will be over time
published by Proletkult.

During the period from October 22 to May 23, Moscow Painting Workshops
Proletkult carried out a number of works for Trade Unions and other organizations. Ka-
Product quality varies depending on operating conditions.

During the period indicated above, the Workshops made 12 banners: for Food-
workers and tanners of the Moscow Gubotdel, the Paris Commune factory, the factory
Rickyin Orekhovo-Zuevo, for the Glavetoda Military Paramedic School, for the 12th Congress
RCP (by order of the Krasnopresnensky district committee), for Borkombinat (2 banners),
Krasnopresnensky Council (2), for the Union "Red. Seamstress" (2).

Covers were made for the Proletkult publishing house: “Songs of the Revolution” (music
nal collection), “Gorn” (magazine), “Lena” by Comrade Pletnev, “Workers’ Club” by Comrade Pletnev.

State Publishing House accepted sketches of popular prints on the themes: “There was a boy in the village, black-
eyebrow lad; the girls fell for him—he’s a Komsomol member,” “It was like that before—
this is how it has become now” (the manor’s estate is a workers’ club), “The Worker and the Machine.”

The studio has developed a range of badges, stamps and posters.

One of the significant recent works of the Workshops was the development of ma-
kets for equipping Red Square for the May holidays. Sketches are approved
center May Committee under the Moscow Party Committee and accepted for execution
at 24. According to the presented project, “Lobnoye Mesto” on Red Square will be
is transformed into a three-dimensional banner of the Russian Communist Party, the monument to “Minin and Pozharsky” is camouflaged
May Day tribune and the tribune “Sickle and Mo” is being erected near the Kremlin wall
lot." According to the Studio, all three structures should have been connected between
X8 RE ECULT. 213

themselves and with the Kremlin “radio wires” with electric letters: “Proletarians”
All countries, unite." On the Guma building and the Kremlin walls it was supposed
give decorations that are related in color and shape to the main structures on the ground
have mercy. As a dynamic moment on the area should be entered
2 trucks (with workers on one and peasants on the other), worked out in for-
max characterizing the production of towns and villages.

In the field of theatrical work, the Workshops are currently developing
Botka of a universal portable stage platform.

For the October celebrations of 24, it is planned to organize the 1st street exhibition,
which will be the reporting exhibition of works by the Moscow Prolell Cult Studio.

Some of the Painting Workshops’ students are currently working in the region.
nah, as a toolwhorov.

MAY 1ST IN PROLETNULT AND ITS CLUBS.

The Central Studios of the Moscow Proletkult performed on May 1st in Ro-
Gozhsko-Simonovsky district with a carnival procession depicting military
stical march of bourgeois Europe. The procession was led by Joffre, followed by
his retinue, they were all on horses. Next, Russia moved in two cars.
Siysk White Emigration, led by Miliukov. In an open area in Simo
The new performance was given - “Joffre is getting ready to go on a campaign.” Due to bad weather,
the open-air performance had to end there.

Simonovsky Club took part in the entire organization of the celebration
May 1st in the area. On April 30, 2 reports were delivered on the significance of May 1:
one in the People's House at the Parostroy plant, the other at the Amo plant. In the very
The club staged a performance. “Gaz” was performed by the Central Studios
Studios of the Moscow Proletkult. In the People's House, the Komsomol forces
A re-enactment of the May Day was staged and a concert section was given.

On May 1st at the sports ground of the Central Studio of the Moscow Prolet-
cult acted © Act 3 of the political buffoonery “For every wise man there is enough
simplicity." Due to bad weather, performance in the open air is due to this
it's over. In the evening, the Club put on a propaganda slapstick show by B. Yurtsev and
I. Kravchunovsky “Devilry”,

Theater Studio of the Central Printers Club, led by Comrade. Mo-
login - Machulsky, together with the Physical Education Studio, organized a celebration
May 1st on Khodyyka.

On the platform allocated to the Studio, there was first a rally, and then
moose performance. Despite the very bad weather, the stand was open from 2 p.m.
from noon until 7 o'clock in the evening with loud approval from the workers and peasants
mass. Particularly successful were “Petrushka”, “charades”, live cinema, “Vos-
“becoming”, pyramids, boxing, gladiator fight. At the end of the performance, the Theater
ral Studio staged a carnival procession in costumes and makeup from Khodynka
to Triumfalnaya Square, carrying beer with the crowd.United Art Studio at. Central Bakery Center, led by
Comrade Turmachev, on the eve of May 1st’ participated in the end; participation expressed
in Nos. of collective recitation and noise orchestra. On May 1st the Studio arranged
carnival procession: ahead of the column of bakers moved a troika - a worker,
peasant and Red Army soldier, who pulled the world bourgeoisie behind them on a tightrope
zyu, associated Poincaré, Mussolini, Bonar-Law and others. The procession caused a storm
the crowd's approval. to

When stopping, the Studio grouped and gave flying numbers collectively
noisy recitation and noise orchestra.

R Club of the 1st Exemplary Printing House (6. Sytin} celebration of May 1st
happened as follows. On the eve of May 1st, the Struisky Theater hosted

16*
244 OBN. No. 8

evening of memories. Along with the play “The Mutiny” performed by a sponsored group
jealous, the concert department and “May 1st” was staged by the Club’s drama club
among emigrants."

On May 1st, workers staged a carnival procession. Traveled on two carts
image of a city meeting with a village and a huge book made of plywood was being carried
"Karl Marx's Capital". An American woman was driving a car, typing
and scattered portraits of Lenin with his biography along the way. The next car
The bill was carrying a structure on which was riding a bourgeois in a huge mask. On Krasnaya
square, carnival participants sang songs, ditties accompanied by a balalaika, read revolutionary
the literal poems finally created a round dance among the audience. In the evening on
Serpukhovskaya Square, which is served by the district Pervomaiskaya Commission
completely handed over to the Club, a concert took place: orchestra, choir, choir of the sponsored village,
physical education, bio-mechanics, performance “The Shadow of Karl Liebknecht”. During intermission
Fireworks were set off to the sounds of an orchestra.

The interest of those present in the performance was so great that the pressure of the crowd
the iron fence around the stage was broken,

At the Railwaymen's Club named after. Kalyaeva (Moscow 1, Kursk railway) idly
The process took place as follows. On the eve of May 1st, at the opening of the Railway
Road Club Moscow P| sosthere was a concert of the Kalyaevsky Club, which included a choir, con-
concert department and “link between the city and the countryside”, improvisation staged
independently by a drama studio and had great success. May 1st Kalyaev Club
served the area in front of the Kursk railway station. In addition to the Kalyaev Club, to participate
were involved: Gas Plant Club, workers' cell of the Kursk management
roads and the Agreneva-Slavyanskaya choir was invited. The program was as follows:
“The link between the city and the village”, the choir singing into horns, May Day parsley,
raeshnik and buffoons performed by the RKSM drama studio, directed by comrade. Niko-
Laevsky

All issues of the Kalyaevsky Club were warmly received by the audience.

To celebrate May 1st in the Podolsk Proletkult from Mo-
Skovsky Proletkult was sent by comrade. Sukhov. In Podolsk comrade. Sukhov
led the celebration not only of Proletkult, but also of the entire artistic
part of the celebration in the city.

Comrade's work Sukhov on organizing the holiday, according to the review of Pervomay-
skaya Commission, gave excellent results. True, the conceived plan is idle
the project could not be carried out as a whole due to bad weather, but still
waters organized a procession to the square. Theater Studio of Proletkult you
stepped here with a living picture of “Freedom”, a choir with the singing of revolutionary
songs, string orchestra - with a revolutionary repertoire. On Teatral Square
naya Studio performed a collective recitation.

From 6 o'clock Proletkult organized a large concert at the Soviet Theatre.
concert performance, and in the Proletkult premises from 6 o’clock. movie session and then in his
indoors, Proletkult staged two concerts and performances, after which it was organized
a family party was called, in which the Theater Studio took an active part
participation by performing “stories”, jokes, character dances, etc.

United Drama Studios of the Workers' Palace named after. Zagorsky and the factory
im. Clara Zetkin, Baumanovsky district, where the instructor from Proletkult works
Comrade S. Kalinkin; On April 30, a performance was given in the garden of the Workers' Palace. It went:
1) “We welcome May” ZhemchuZhnogo-Kalinkin; 2) “Popov’s and kulakov’s things”—
a booth in 2 paintings by Kalinkin-Kiselev, in the style of May Day parsley; plays
scenes were staged in the style of slapstick comedy and circus; 3) choral recitation (poetry)
nia of Mayakovsky, Kamensky, etc.), and 4) solo recitation.

On the afternoon of May 1st, a satirical procession “The Living Church” was organized. Vpe-
Walking along was a priest blessing the workers for the celebration of May 1st, and next to him
No. 8 TROLLETKA L.

52
|4
[1

a deacon carrying a filthy bucket and broom; the deacon sprinkled “holy water” on the standing
around the audience.

in the evening the Studios performed with choral ceclamation and parsley in the garden
"May 1st". All performances of the Studios aroused keen interest and noisy
approval.

Theater Studio at the Red Seamstress Factory Club, led by in-
Proletkult constructor S. Turmachev, showed her participation in the evening of the 28th April
rel, dedicated to May 1st. The studio staged “Uprising”, a massive
collective production depicting the fighting moments of the proletariat, which was staged
to music with collective denlamation, organized movement and light
effects.

The production was a great success among the public.

$r
—-- = - PI a SHIELD. POWERS CHECK MIS ROV mania VI obv Lat

CENTRAL CLUB
_ MOSCOW PROLETVULT NAMED AFTER F.I. KALININ.

Moscow Proletkult, together with the MK RKP and MGSPS, organized
Central Club of the Moscow Proletkult named after Fyodor Ivanovich Kalinin.

The tasks of the struggle on the ideological front, the struggle for proletarian culture,
against the bourgeois ideology that is raising its head, are deployed on a very wide scale.
rock front.

In school from its lower classes to higher education, in science, in art: theater,
cinema, literature, fine arts, in extracurricular activities in all its
views, in everyday life, in the Club, everywhere there is still a lot that is far from those
the ideals of communism to which we strive.

With bourgeois ideology, with philistinism, ignorance, the legacy of tsarism
there is a daily struggle to be waged. And you have to be able to fight. We need to study the enemy
study it weake and strong places, you need to forge your weapons, knowledge
theories, practice of new forms of cultural creativity. And it’s not enough, you need to be able to practice
technically in life to build new elements of proletarian class culture, which
Paradise is still in the future.

We are taking our first steps on this path, we are only winning back from the enemy
first positions. And without a long struggle, the bourgeois ideology of its rule
will not yield to us.

And it must be said that, distracted by the combat situation of the civil war,
where issues of life and death of the RSFSR were decided with arms in hand, we did not
could devote enough attention and effort to our ideological front.

At this moment we have the opportunity to begin a systematic struggle in
this area.

We, communists and cultural workers in general, do not yet have a number of
cultural issues, be it in the field of science and especially in art, a distinct
and a clear point of view that can serve as support for every comrade in his
daytime practical work. The work of our communist thought on these
questions, a critical assessment of the practice of our cultural work in all areas
in this practical work, finding new, most fully satisfying
new methods, forms of work, setting up a number of experiments in this area - that’s what
what we need now. You need to concentrate your thoughts somewhere in one place
comrades and their practical achievements, summarize them, generalize mutual
exchange, experience and thoughts to complement each other's work. These goals will be
serve as the “Central Club of the Moscow Proletkult named after Fyodor Ivano-
Vich Kalinin." The attached program of the Club and its charter will indicate to you
How is this Club organized and what is its intended work?

We do not think that the Club will immediately give its comrades all-healing answers in
theory and practice of building proletarian culture, but we express full
confidence that through the collective efforts of comrades, in their close practice
Through technical cooperation in the Club, we will be able to find these answers.

Members of the Club may be members of the RCP on the recommendation of the district committee, members
Profsoycall on the recommendation of the provincial department of their Union, Proletcultists
on the recommendation of the Presidium of Proletkult or the same comrades on the recommendation
3 Club members. In the latter case, the Board reserves the right to
No. 8 ROTE lLT. 247

get additional recommendations from individual comrades above
organizations.

Registration for membership in the Club is accepted in the building of the Moscow Proletkult:
Vozdvizhenka, 16. Information on all Club matters there or by phone No. 57-40
and 58 -25 from 12 to 4 pm daily,

The club is located in the building of the Moscow Proletkult: Vozdvizhenka, 16.

With sincere communist greetings
Club Board.

Club board composition:

V. M. Mikhailov, A. A. Antonov, In. IN. SOtukov, V. F. Pletnev, S. I. Zander
N. N. Ivanov, A. A. Dodonova, P. P. Karpukhin, V. N. Maksimovsky \).

Scheme of reports of the Moscow Proletcult Club.

| cycle.
|. The material base of culture of capitalist society.
2. $ „ transition period.
3; „culture of the future socialist society.
4. Production technology and labor organization (optional).

And the cycle.
Types of crops.
. The main features of the culture of the capitalist era.

>

Yu. “„”” transition period.
3. m » m socialist society,
Sh cycle.

Cultural tasks of transitional times.

. Specialization and universalism.

2. Development of the ideology of the communist revolution in the working class (re-
revolutionary-class and production consciousness of the proletariat).

`Z. Technical intelligentsia (specialists) and the working class.

4. Tasks of educational policy under the dictatorship of the proletariat.

5. Elements of nationalism and internationalism in the field of culture.

6. Education of working youth.

7. The offensive of the bourgeoisie on the ideological front.

8. Materialism and idealism as types of class ideologies.

9. The problem of the “meaning of life” in the understanding of different classes of society.

10. The role and tasks of Proletkult in the socialist revolution.

11. Morality and the working class.

12. Religion and socialism. ,

13. Bourgeois and petty: “bourgeois influence on the proletariat in the regionand culture
tours.

G. A. Dodonova was introduced to the Board of the Club when V. P. Faydysh
received a party trip to Novo-Nikolaevsk.

127

248 rub. office No. 3

Russia.

A. General questions.

Art and classes.

Criticism and the science of art.
Subject and form.

Art and production.
The crisis of art.

. Utilitarian and pure art.
. Artistic directions.

cholshrmyu

B. General questions on the specialty.

THEO: a) Theater and everyday life.
6) Theater and cinema.
c) Agitation theater.
LITO: a) A pulp novel.
6) The tasks of proletarian poetry.
IZO: ‘a) Problems of ingenuity.
6) Applied and industrial arts.
c) Poster.
MUSO: a) Music and work.

B. Special issues.
t. No. 2

Theory: a) Theater and physical education.
6) Theater and carnival.
c) Education of an actor.
Practice: a) Bio-mechanics.
6) Metro rhythm.
c) Music Hall and booth.
d) Circus.
e) happy with stylization (Chamber).
would be experiences (Artistic).
f life (Small). I
3) Operetta.
i) American cinema,
j) Technology (industry) and theater.

2. LITO.
Theory: ‘’a) Agit-poetry.
6) About utilitarian speech.
.. Newspaper and magazine.
d) Literature and spoken language.
Practice: a) Futurism.
6) Imagism,
c) Serapionists.
d) Abstruse. poetry.
e) Performances by poets (Maznovky, aa Aseev, Tretyakov.

Gerasimov and others).
№8 PROTET CULT 249

CALL

Theory: a) Two non-objectivity.
6) Engineering and design.
c) Easel art.
d) Reports of the Institute of Artistic Culture. .
Practice: a) Expressionism in Germany. \
6) Types of production; 1) Textile,
2) Printing,
3) Woodworking, etc.
c) Advertising, signboard, poster, announcement.
d) Decorative art.

4. MUZ oO.

Theory: a) The origin of music.
6) Music and car.
s. Music and a new city.
Practice: a) Jazz band, orchestra of things and music of noises.
6) American dance and march.
c) Romance, couplet, ditty, chansonette.
d) Radio music.
e) About new tools.
f) Choir in the past and future.
g) Classical music.

5. PHYSICAL CULTURE.

Theory: a) Physical education of the proletariat.
6) Labor (coordination) gymnasticska.
c) Team sports.
d) Anthropomechanics,
e) Reflexology of gymnastics and sports,
Practice: 8 Swedish and Sokol gymnastics. .
6). Lesgaft gymnastics.
c) Rhythmic gymnastics.
d) Applied gymnastics by Ebert.
e) Labor (coordination) gymnastics.
All programs on special issues will be more or less widely
illustrated with demonstrations of practical achievements in all fields.
Central Club Moscow, Prospect im. F.I. Kalinina opened at the beginning
December 1922, and from December 1 to May 15 of this year the Club staged
the following major reports on scientific issues:
1) Comrade Bukharin—“On the question of posing the cultural problem.”
2) Comrade Bubnov—“The offensive of the bourgeoisie on the ideological front.”
3) Comrade Lunacharsky—“The main features of the culture of the capitalist era.”
4) Comrade Preobrazhensky --— “The material basis of the culture of a socialist society.”
5) Comrade Fritsche - “The problem of the meaning of life in the understanding of different classes of society.”
6) T. Reisner—“The problem of psychology in the teaching of historical materialism.”
7) Comrade Stukov—“On the education of youth.” 5
8) T. Falkner-Smith - “Energy resources of working humanity.”
All these reports were accompanied by extensive discussions, which
dragged on until late. Debate on the report of Comrade Preobrazhensky
were even rescheduled for another day.

12$
250 I: No. 8

The following reports on art were delivered:

1) T. Lelevich—“On the stories “Chocolate” by Tarasov-Rodionov and “The Week” by Libedin-
sky.

2) Comrade Kogan - “About the Serapion Brothers.”

3) T. Skachko - “About the tabloid novel.”

4) Comrade Pletnev “On the paths of proletarian literature.”

5) “On Futurism in Literature” with an introductory speech by Comrade Brik and a speech

from the poets Mayakovsky, Aseev and Kruchenykh,

6) Comrade Arvatov - “What kind of theater does the working class need?” -

7) T. Arvatov - “Art and production”. )

8) “On the physical education of the proletariat” with reports by T. I. Sokolov “New physical education”,
T. Kharlampiev “Method of mass work” and with demonstration of methods
mass work in the summer.

Topics covered in mentionedreports, caused extremely heated exchanges
opinions, especially topics on literature, when supporters of various
literary trends. The discussion about “Chocolate” also raised a whole
a number of questions coming from the field of art.

In the second half of May the Club presented a report by Comrade. Ke; Zhentseva
about the “Scientific organization of labor” and a number of other reports.

From June 1st, the production of large reports stops until September 1st, but
work in the sections will continue, and the Literary Section will form an experimental
research circle of proletarian literature, whose task is
systematic studies to establish the principles of proletarian criticism.

The verbatim reports of Comrade Lunacharsky and Comrade Preobrazhensky came out
in the publication of the Central Committee of Proletkult. It is planned to publish reports on art separately.
no book.

Number of club members at 15/\s. city—154 people; of which 136 are members of the RCP, members
RKSM - 10, non-party - 8.

All Club members were accepted on the recommendation of party or professional
cash organizations. The reports, except for the Club members, were examined by the party
comrades, members of industrial trade unions and senior students
Sverdlovsk University and National Communist University
minorities of the West. ,

The total number of listeners at the reports ranged from 200-300 people. During
There was a reading room for reports.

WHAT KIND OF THEATER DOES THE WORKING CLASS NEED.
Protocol of the report at the Central Club of the Moscow Proletkult 19/X1-22.

The speaker Comrade Arvatov develops the problem of the proletarian theater from two points
vision, namely; 1) takes the theater as one of the moments of construction in the plan
measured socialist society, and 2) approaches the problem from the point of view
using existing forms of theatre.

The starting point is the definition of theatrical art as
creativity in the field of organizing human actions.

In a bourgeois society, which is not systematically organized at its core,
the urgent need was the illusory organization of everyday life, the replenishmentreal anarchist life in the imagination and with the help of the imagination. This is
was the social function of the theater, which in the era of commodity economy became a “special
Noah" ry. :

the opposite of bourgeois society, the working class, in its own way,
trends, is called upon to build a unified, systematic collectivist society
No. 8 PROLETKULT. 251

in which, as Marx put it, all illusions will disappear. Can't be in
in such a society there is room for illusory art (the task of the proletariat is not to depict
destroy reality, but organize it, change it).

What to do now? Destroy the theater? No,” the speaker answers. “Theater.”
can be used in two directions. It is necessary, on the one hand, to go
to make the means of educating an actor the means of educating a
every person. It is necessary to open a number of laboratories that would engage in experimental
resolution of the question of human organization not only in terms of aesthetics,
chesically (Comrade Meyerhold was the first to take this path with his experiences in organizing
theatrical movement based on physical education). On the other hand, you need to use
call theater for politics! struggle, economic, etc. While humanity
is still floundering in diapers, while it is still necessary to act in the “way”—the theater is necessary
use as a form of influence. Here the question arises in all its severity:
which of the theatrical forms are the forms of the greatest in real
conditions of social influence. The speaker considers these forms to be forms
“cabaret type, music hall, farce theater, circus, i.e. forms that go
into the masses, bursting into everyday life, and not calling for contemplation—forms, devoid of
ny illusions and establishing the greatest degree of communication between the actor and the viewer.
One should not be afraid of the “low quality” of these forms. Division of arts into high ones
and low fetish. Everything can be used by the proletariat for its purposes.

Comrade Arvatov summarizes his report in the following terms: 1) gap
with an easel theater; 2) liquidation of the theater and replacement of human organization with
theater organizationcenturies in life; 3) laboratory work on a person
and material; 4) use of existing theatrical forms, forms not
leading away from life, but rushing into it.

The co-rapporteur on the issue of the proletarian theater was Comrade. Pletnev.

Modern theater does not meet the requirements that it imposes
revolution. Three reasons determine this: 1) the emptiness of the theater,
powerless to reveal the intensity of the emotional element that was
the result of the revolution, 2) unpreparedness in social terms of man-
ical material in the old theater and 3) formal conservatism. Main,
Comrade Pletnev sees the initial task of theatrical work in creating a repertoire
macaw The quests of writers must be placed in inextricable connection with the quests
theater studios: the method of separating the actor, director and author should be
rejected. The life of the revolution in its extraordinary sustained heroism, the moment
romantic and satirical—these are the three main directions in which
work may begin to create a repertoire.

Without denying the importance of flexible, fast forms of theatrical action, Comrade Pletnev
does not agree, however, with Comrade Arvatov in ‘his statement about/ the possibility of limiting
be limited to such forms only. Grandiose ideas of the revolution, says
Comrade Pletnev, - cannot be expressed in such quickly flashing forms.
We cannot do without a theater of great action, without a monumental theatre. X.

In the debate that opened after the reports, comrade objected. Arvatov T. T. Kozlov,
Diament, Volin and others. Comrade. Kozlov puts forward the point of view that the search for
tariat in the field of art must inevitably have as their starting point
reality, everyday life Art is an organizing moment because
an artist knows how to see and reproduce ‘what others don’t see. Decadence,
futurism - everything innovative was brought to us from the West, as decadent, to impose
The proletariat cannot tolerate this decadence.

Against the slogan about the use of “cabaret” forms to create pro-
Tara Theater objects to T. 'Diament'. If in a café-chantan the bourgeoisie is “steaming”

", then you cannot wish the same for the worker. In general, the proletarian theater
will arise spontaneously from the bottom of the proletarian masses.
253 i No. 8

Comrade Volin points out the need to give in the theater, on the one hand,
revolutionary life, on the other hand, the romanticism that permeates our
revolution

The speaker's point of view was supported by Comrades Gamza, Kravchunovsky and Brik.
Comrade Chuzhak makes several adjustments to it.

Comrade Gamza—emphasizes that Comrade Arvatov takes art as an organi-
a beginning, as a moment of construction (art is not a mirror, but a hammer). If
the art of the past was what ten people did, and thousands
stared at them, then in the art of the future the basic principle should be
not “gazing”, but the creativity of life. An actor must stop being only an artist
com of the stage, he must become an artist-citizen. The meaning of leftist currents
in art lies precisely in the fact that old forms are broken and preparations
provides the basis for the flourishing of art in a socialist society. Just like
just as Marx, the child of bourgeois science, cost his mother the death, in the same way
and futurism, the child of bourgeois art, will cost its mother the death.

Comrade Kravchunovsky speaks about the forms of agitation and propaganda theater,
sharing the view of Comrade Arvatov and considering the forms indicated by the speaker
forms of the greatest, in current conditions, social impact.

According to Comrade Brik, the task of reflecting everyday life cannot be a task of prose-
Tariat. The proletariat needs a spectacle where it can see, without any deception,
demonstration of human dexterity and strength. Therefore, those who
offers forms of circus, café chantana (?). Many people talk about this kind of indecency
art, but can’t “dating” houses, for example, be turned into proletarian ones?
dorms? The same is true with cafes. This form can be used
to call for proletarian purposes. As for the everyday theater, this theater is Comrade Brik
characterizes it as complete hypocrisy. No onee will go look at the barricades
in the theater, if he himself was at the barricades.

The last of the comrades who spoke, Comrade Tretyakov, expressed that
the sense that the theater must inevitably make a revolution within itself. Change
If industrial relations have changed, the psyche cannot remain unchanged. From
changes in forms, while, of course, not going anywhere. And those forms that are intended
What we are looking for now is precisely the forms of organization of living human material.

There was no final word from Comrade Arvatov, due to his illness.

0 THE SERAPION BROTHERS AND LITERATURE IN GENERAL.
Report-debate at the Central Club of the Moscow Proletkult on February 6, 1923.

The starting point for the speaker, Comrade. Kogan, is the reason
direct dependence of literature on the public. The magnitude of what happened
during the years of the revolution, the psychological revolution is that the individual from
The “object” of the state has turned into its subject: The will rushes outward, the forces
centrifugal ones are developing, and the contemplative attitude towards the world has disappeared. All
exciting thoughts lie outside the field of lyricism, and are characteristic of the present moment
This is the death of lyric poetry and the revival of fiction. Three main
signs clarify for us the nature of this new fiction: 1) the rapprochement of literature
tours with science, 2) its active sword, and 3) the introduction of masses (collectives). All these
We find three signs in the Serapion brothers. However, if you put
the question is whether the Serapion brothers are aware of our era, i.e. something new that she used
carried with her, then this question has to be answered in the negative. Serapionovs
the brothers have not noticed those basic forces that lead us not, Angle of view

Ilnyak, for example, is not the point of view of our revolution: Pilnyak can
call as exponents those who were already much better expressed by Andrei Bely.
No. 8 PROLETKULT. 253

Pilnyak, like the other Serapion brothers, are crushed by the old world. He's looking
through the eyes of old Prince Yegor. He is attracted to former people. And it is characteristic that
revolution in the real sense of the word at PilnyakNo. There is no Marx, there is only
peasant revolt.

It’s the same with Vsevolod Ivanov - yesterday’s people, wonderful old age.

In terms of Pilnyak and V. Ivanov and other Serapion brothers.

As a significant phenomenon in modern literature, Comrade. Kogan
points to the story “The Week” by Libedinsky. In this story it is extremely significant
the revolutionary's approach to assessing himself as an organizational force in general
movement of the revolution. Here we first felt what holds our
revolution, namely the psyche of its creative forces. Illuminated before us for the first time
the inner world of a communist.

In the debate on the report of Comrade. Kogan took part: comrade. Grigorov, Chizhev-
skiy, Kholikov, Lelevich, Rodov, Pletnev.

Comrade Lelevich characterizes the Serapion brothers as a literary
a group standing on the other side of the barricades erected by the October Revolution.
The class character of literature requires the organization of the will and feelings of the proletariat,
and then other social strata, in a direction corresponding to the tasks
class. This organization is not reflected in the works of the Serapion brothers
only the rebellious-spontaneous moment of the revolution and thereby distort the real
ness. It is therefore necessary to raise the question of ending the policy of protection
to the Serapion brothers and focus on new shoots
genuine proletarian literature.

To the point of view of comrade. Lelevich is joined by comrade. Rodov, who believes that
The Serapion brothers should be assessed not as fellow travelers of the revolution, (not
speaking of them as spokesmen), but as bagmen sitting on the buffers.
Nothing of value The Serapion brothers, cut off from the revolutionary class,
they can’t give, and you should stop paying so much attention to them altogether.

With this opinion, Comrade Rodova does not agree with comrade. Pletnev, emphasizing

_ the need to find a “place” for the Serapion brothers...
. In his final speech, Comrade Kogan points out the need not only
to realize the harmfulness of this or that movement, but also to master its methodology.
If the fight with the Serapion brothers cannot to be interested, then deeply
The fight against “Serapionism” is instructive. Currently there is an opportunity
concentrate energy and attention on issues of art. There should be an organi-
The scientific-revolutionary front was founded.

FUTURIS M.

Protocol of the report-debate at the Central Club of the Moscow Proletkult
March 3, 1923.

Comrade Brik begins his report by pointing out that critics of futurism
they usually use the material indifferently, no matter what kind of futurism it is
related. Meanwhile, futurism during its existence. had several
stages of development and this cannot be ignored. First of all, one cannot help but know that
There is Italian futurism and Russian futurism. The difference between them
huge. Italian futurism is imperialist, Russian futurism is revolutionary. War
was proclaimed by Italian Futurism as the hygiene of the world. In his Mani-
feste Marinetti said: we will sing the praises of cities shaken by crowds
workers, we will sing of anarchist rebellion, but at the same time we will
glorify war. Marinetti's idea was correct in the sense that the explosion with that
or the other side was bound to ‘happen. The whole point, however, is
that the Italian futurists were closer to war, because they were children

Y
254 from No. 8

ruling class, their iceology was the ideology of the bourgeois, imperial
listical, Therefore, there is nothing surprising in the fact that now Italian
futurists are on the side of the fascists.

As for Russian futurism, it did not grow out of Italian or ideological
logically or organizationally. Russian futurism arose independently of the Italian
sky. Lachey in 1914 Marinetti tried to contact Russian Futurism, but
to no avail. Characterizing the first futuristic groups in Russia,
Comrade Brik notes that initially Russian futurism resulted mainly in
in laboratory work on words. That group, however, which published in 1914
“Collection of Futurists” carried through the entire war trends that were opposite
imperialist tendencies of Italian futurismma. A huge role in the group
played in the celebration and design of futurism in Russia. 1917 Those of the futurists
who even before that time had taken the city and modernity as their themes—understood
17 year as “realization of possibilities”. The destruction of the past became for them
now not destruction for the sake of destruction, but destruction for that new
construction, which the proletariat began. For this group of futurists
social. the goal was clear. Another group reacted differently to October:
Let it be October, but this does not concern us, only laboratory work is important. This
c-^ group fell away from the first, united at the present time under the sign
“Lef”: All those who did not see the social revolution have disappeared. This is where everyone came from
branches: imagists, nichevoki, etc. As for the “Lef” group, it is pre-
its creators consider themselves not creators in general, but makers of a certain art
art, that art that leads to the goals outlined by the proletariat. Accept
agitation art and art entering into production and everyday life are toil. At the same time,
The Lef group believes that you cannot build the future without completely rejecting the old.
This is her significant difference from her fellow proletarian writers who are still
under the spell of old forms.

After Comrade Brik’s report, the poets perform < reading their works:
Aseev, Kruchenykh, Mayakovsky.

Participating in the debate are Comrades. Pletnev, Rodov, Lelevich, Mayakovsky,

Chulkanov, Dorogoichenko and others.

T. Pletnev asks the question why tl. working in leftist art and
oriented towards the proletarian ideological front, call themselves futuristic
hundred, despite the fact that, as the speaker said, Russian futurism arose
independent of Italian Futurism and resulted in something other than Italian
“T, Pletnev considers this issue extremely important, since the name “futurism”
creates a certain prerequisite for understanding the works of futurist poets,
as futuristic, having a certain connection © with Italian futurism,
Is there any connection, at least in the area of form?

; Opponithe comrades who founded the edit were put forward the following fundamental
certain provisions: 1) futurism is not a poetic school, 2) a single ideology
Futurists do not, 3) the name “Futurism” itself is just a beautiful sign,

utourism has no content behind it and therefore cannot organize
consciousness, 5) the working masses do not understand futurism, 6) if the futurists agree,
that literature is not just a change of forms, they must reconsider who is in their
ranks has no social significance, 7) the left group of ‘futurists’ becomes
currently at the “Forge” position, later it will come to the position
"October" group, 8) the futurists have only one path: to communism.

Due to the late time, the speaker is limited in concluding remarks
answers only on some points.

There is no doubt, says Comrade Brik, that futurism must merge with the proletarian
cult - work. This will happen when the slogans of futurism are understood and accepted.
At the present time, the name communist-futurists is necessary, since the
expects us from the passeist communists, who, unfortunately, are still very, very

Che V and

No. 8 WARM T.. 255

a lot. As for the statement of t.t. Rodov and Lelevich that we will study
from them, then undoubtedly, if they do anything, we will not refuse to learn.
For now, both “Kuznitsa” and “October” are learning from the futurists, and, if only from the futurists
If there was not a penny of content, then their significance would still be enormous.

Replying to Comrade Pletnev, Comrade Brik points out that the meaning of the name “futurism”
is that this group is breaking with the past. Russian futurism has a connection with Marinetti
in the field of form, of course, there is. This cannot be denied. And yet, when you listen,
for example, Mayakovsky, then does an idea arise about the attitude towards Italian-
Whose futurism? No, digging up this attitude is a whole backstage of journalism.

the order of his speech in the debate, he gave some explanations
Comrade Mayakovsky, who put forward the position that the work of the futurists, like any other
poetic work, one must consider the "comparator"but." And if that's the case
approach futurism, it will become clear that in modern literature there are no other
movements that would have the same meaning as futurism. Futurists are the first
set the tasks that were required at the present moment. Futurists have
True, it varies in degree of intelligibility: there is simply understandable and not so understandable;
but the tasks are not the same: propaganda moment, everyday life, awareness of the general moment
and so on. All these are different gradations. You also need to be able to understand this. You can't
in other cases, do not “learn” to understand the futurists.

The attitude towards Italian futurism is clear. There are similarities in the area of formal
Noah. The goals, however, are different. There is no ideological community. For the title
“Futurism,” says Comrade Mayakovsky, “we hold on because this word is
for many, a flag to which they can rally. When will our awareness be
awareness of the masses, we will abandon this term. Even now the name futurism
is only generic for us. Our private name is comfut (communists)

futurists).
SHOCKER.

Report-debate in the Literary Section of the Central Club of Moscow
Proletkult 13LI-23

The speaker, Comrade Skachko, proceeds from the recognition of the need to take into account the psycho-
logic of that mass, in the midst of which it is necessary to draw the line of proletarian ideology
gical front. In literature, as one of the sections of this front, it is necessary
find a form of influence on the mass reader that would teach him
to reading, interested and aroused those feelings, without which, although
knowledge of the ideas of the proletarian revolution is possible, but there are no conditions for action °
in accordance with these ideas. The form of such influence on the mass reader
t. Skachko believes the so-called. tabloid novel, the distinctive features of which are
are contained in dynamism, simplicity and richness of content, romanticism,
intense heroism and, as a result of all this, extreme entertainment.

Having settled on a chivalric adventure novel as a starting point
tabloid novel, comrade. jumps overfurther to the characteristics of the novels
in the bourgeois era, when, with the final establishment of the bourgeoisie, for the first time
the “psychological novel” is moving into place, and the adventure novel is being pushed aside
into the background, sinks and becomes coarser, nevertheless continuing to retain those
features that made it a fascinating read. For various cars
These are the basic features that make a pulp novel entertaining,
of course, are modified: for example, Victor’Hugo and Eugene-Sue have an interesting
ity is achieved by the convergence of various and diverse plot threads into one
a tangle of common struggle. For Dumas and Ponson du Terail, everything is united
characters to whom the reader's sympathies are attached, In English

128
256 g.9 Re. No. 8

tradition is mainly interested in a riddle, a secret, the solution to which is left to the reader
I want to get it at all costs, a tabloid novel in the era of its race
colors performed a great public service. Its best representatives led
in this literary form, the struggle against absolutism and religion, against the monarchy
chism and clericalism. By the beginning of the twentieth century, the tabloid novel was degenerating—losing
epic and social element. A plot connected by the unity of thoughts and actions
is replaced by a jumble of random adventures. Form devoid of content
fades and fades. At the moment of greatest degeneration of the pulp novel, Jack

Ondon, however, creates brilliant works of this genre, filling it with new meaning
social content, protest and struggle against the decaying capital
stic class and bourgeois society. The example of Jack London proves
that the form of the adventure novel can be used splendidly for
propaganda and agitation, and proletarian writers should not ignore this
forms.

For the modern reader, who has gone through the frantic dynamics of the revolution,
Neither “Chekhov’s” moods, nor “Leonid-Andreev’s” thoughts have already
you won't get it. “The reader demands that literature give him “concentrated”
revolution.

Using a proven boulevard shapeary romance can be involved
into reading and to encourage the broad masses of the peasantry and workers and through
reading shapes their consciousness, draws them into the revolution. This task deserves
attracts a lot of attention, and it is not for nothing that Comrade Bukharin placed in party order
day question about “Red Pinkerton”,

Regarding the view of the inevitability of an individualistic character
tabloid novel, then this view is unfounded. In the form of a pulp novel
can be included, if not the action of the masses, then in any case the action of the organiza-
tions. Identifying the organization as the protagonist of the revolution will fill the gap
which still exists in our fiction.

Comrades Lelevich, Bogdanov, and
Chizhevsky, Tarasov-Rolionov, Trainin, Dorogoichenko.

Most of the comrades who spoke pointed out that the speaker was not
given a clear distinction between two concepts: “tabloid novel” and “adventure novel”
". If in a novel of adventure there really is both plot and dynamism,
mism, then this in no way can be said about a tabloid novel, where everything
built only on poignant moments aimed at “stunning” the reader
(Comrade Lelevich). The dynamism of a fictional adventure novel may be finite.
but, used to serve the tasks that are now facing
proletariat, but this kind of literary form is not the only form
but possible, and proletarian writers face the task of creating their own
proletarian action that would reflect the revolutionary struggle
working class. T. Lelevich points to Comrade Libedinsky’s “Week” as a
measures of a literary work, where there is neither vulgarization nor schematization,
and where adventure is not an end in itself. It is in this story that
already some basics for constructing a proletarian adventure novel.

Against the possibility of widespread and *-irrelevant use of forms!!
Comrade Bogdanov speaks out decisively about the tabloid novel. If given a known
slogan -he says, “one cannot ignore what it can lead to.” Pull out
promoting the slogan of adapting proletarian literature to the forms of boulevard-
This novel does not, apparently, take into account all the possible consequences from this. Go-
talking, for example, about the need for us to “Red Pinkerton”, they forget that
it is Pinkerton that is extremely characteristic as an indicator of the mood before the war,
that a pulp novel of this type is nothing more than one of the forms
development of yellow militarism. They also forget that the tabloid novel
in general, this is a world of fantasy, with laws different from the laws of our real
c.

No. 8 prOTETEULG 257

peace. Fantasy has free movement in this world, a moment characteristic of
utopianism. The question of entertainment and dynamism, since they are needed by
letariat, should generally be discussed regardless of the forms of the pulp novel.

Comrade Tarasov-Rodionov, considering it quite legitimate to raise the question of
what place should adventure and fable occupy in the proletarian life?
mane, indicates that adventure, as an end in itself, is, of course, pointless
meaning. At the same time, adventure should not necessarily have a
of a roical character in the sense of pathos. Heroism must be identified in connection
with everyday life, it needs to be connected with the small facts of everyday life.

In his concluding remarks, the speaker emphasized that, speaking about p
novel, he meant, of course, a fictional adventure novel. This form
certainly captivates the masses. Therefore, it is impossible not to pay attention to it, not
study it, because the forms of literary creativity that we have today are
hour, are acceptable only for the upper layers of the intelligentsia. There is no doubt that the use
a tabloid novel should be called only to the extent that it is necessary in the interests of
sah and the tasks of the working class. 'It is also obvious that work on literary
the form of a pulp novel does not exclude the need to develop other
literary forms.

ART AND PRODUCTION.
Protocol of the report at the Central Club of MoscowProletkult March 27, 1923.

The speaker, Comrade Arvatov, raises the question of how to connect
artistic creativity with the production process. In this area the struggle
is now between two main groups: defenders of artisanal art and
defenders of industrial art. The first claim that artisanal production
production, which in the past was closely associated with artistic creativity, has not died
and now that an artist can create only when he is free and not subject to
repaired to the machine, and what can be used, therefore, can only be that industry
production, which is individual, i.e., handicraft industry. this point
point of view, the speaker characterizes it as undoubtedly idealistic, does not admit-
giving rise to the possibility that the walker could work not individually. Line
further development of production lies along the path of industrial development
production, If we introduce art into handicraft industry, then
art itself will not enter into everyday life. From this angle, support for artisanal
production *is a clearly reactionary action. Defenders of artisanal art
states also point to the enormous importance of the handicraft industry, as
export item, but even here it is necessary to keep in mind that long-term use
The development of this export item is doomed to failure, since old stocks will be
are depleted, but there will be no significant influx of new items, due to the non-mass
handicraft production. Finally, one cannot ignore the fact that
that there is demand for our handicrafts abroad only among the bourgeoisie,
and this demand is due mainly to the interest in these products as “ra-
rites." Count on buyers among the working class, peasants and townspeople
you can’t: they won’t buy things they don’t need. Without a doubt, he continues.
speaker, that at present we can only talk about the entry of art
into large industrial production. And here we are talking about methods when
what are the two main points of view?nia. One is put forward by supporters of the
masonry art, the other - defenders of artistic engineering. First point
vision is sufficiently known: the artist “gives” things beautiful forms,
the artist, taking the finished product, decorates it externally. Fundamentally applied
new art is the same “pure” art: it assumes the possibility

44.

1

1/29%
258 Gor K No. 8

existence of an artistic form, regardless of the technically organized
material. The result of this is that when working on a thing they already think
not about why this thing is being made, but about how it will look. Material
raped. Things are prepared that are non-utilitarian,

The opposite point of view is taken by defenders of artistic engineering.
nerii. They put forward the need for the artist to reach a high level
industry, which means: to be able to organize the production process in its
in general, to become an engineer, to understand production in the tasks of developing the production itself
production and make the production process as a whole highly qualified
bathroom (the root of the word art is “skillful”; an artist in every field makes
“better”, he does it “qualifiedly”). Therefore, a cadre of artists is needed,
who would take a production point of view, would learn to know mathematics
rial in its expedient organization. For an artist it is necessary to become
to a socio-technical point of view.

The significance of the representative of urban (Gorots) art of the latter
period ‘lies precisely in the fact that these artists turned out to make images
impressive compositions. They began to design, began to organize mathematics
rials The further step of this advanced group was the abandonment of pointless
designs. For two years now, these artists have not made pointless things. Tatlin,
e.g., works in the metal processing industry, Rodchenko and La-
Vinsky - in the printing industry, Popova and Stepanova - in the theater.

Comrade Arvatov ends his report with a call for the liquidation of the old drilling
zhuaz aesthetics. Necessaryintroduce elements of expediency, revolutionary
introduce new products to the extent possible (taking into account the market). Experiments de-
it is necessary to work, and this will not affect the economic state of the market. Exactly
in the RSFSR it is necessary to set and solve these problems.

Answering the questions asked, Comrade Arvatov, in addition to his report, indicated
calls that the question of artistic production is a question of social
expediency (to organize everyday life through production). Those areas of production
areas in which a merger of art and production is likely to occur.
nal process are: transport, architecture, utensils. As for the manufacture
If we consider tools—means of production—then the matter here is much more complicated. The question is
no, however, in turn, and in this case the tools of labor will need to be first of all dis-
look at the “environment” of labor (the hygiene of production tools, for example).

In the debate on Comrade Arvatov’s report, the center of attention was the speech
poet:constructivist T. Chicherin, who proclaimed the basic law of construction
structuralism “centralized, hierarchical distribution of material, acceptance
shaped (brought into focus) at a predetermined location in the structure.”

T. Pletnev draws the attention of those present to the need for strict
distinguishing the constructivism that Comrade Arvatov spoke about from that meta-
physical constructivism, supported by the poet Chicherin.

`°Comrade Chicherin was given a proper rebuke by Comrade Brik, who revealed his mystical character
constructivism of Comrade Chicherin, who considers it possible to create “things”, leaving
facing the material, regardless of all other conditions. Poet Chi-
Cherina T. Brik classified him as a type of artist who is aware of everything as a system of “eternal
laws" and not understanding that every new thing arises dialectically and
that there are no immutable laws of form in art.

At Comrade Chicherin’s speech he stopped in his concluding remarks and
speaker, who pointed out that the point of view of the poet Chicherin and his like-minded
cov isI have a typically idealistic point of view. On the left front of art,—
says the speaker, “left-wing groups have most decisively dissociated themselves from
right-wing groups: for example, constructivist artists dissociated themselves from Unovis,
Tatlin’s group in Petrograd from Matyushin’s group, “Lef” in Moscow from poztov-
constructivists like Chicherin.
MOSCOW PROLETKULT IN TRADE UNION CLUBS.

Club work of the Moscow Proletkult in the past winter of 1922-23
flowed under completely unusual conditions: Proletkult did not have a single
“your” club, i.e. one that would be supplied at his expense completely or at least
would be in terms of teacher pay, as was the case in past years.

By agreement with K.O. MGSPS, Proletkult was supposed to manage the work
that in separate clubs of various Trade Unions. Organizationally, these clubs are sub-
were carried out by K. O. Soyuzov, although a certain part of the organizational influence, according to
It seems that it belonged to Prolstkult. But over time, as
The trade unions managed to strengthen the material base of the club, they are increasingly
clubs, instructed by Prolet-
cult (they appointed a manager, redrawn estimates and staffing and gave instructions -
proposals to the manager, without coordinating them with Proletkult) Moreover, they de-
Attempts were made to interfere in the cultural work of these clubs. Such aspirations
The cultural departments and the generally abnormal situation of Proletkult further complicated
The already difficult task of managing work in other people's clubs. As a result, the club
This season’s work has yielded much less results than it could have
give with the forces and resources that Proletkult spent on it.

In the fall of 1922, Proletkult supervised the work of more than 20 clubs.
To implement this leadership, Proletkult supplied the clubs with instructors,
who worked according to the plan and programs of Proletkult, checked and instructed
teachers available locally, organized regular teaching meetings
givers on questions of methodology and practice toLubricant work. For club heads
Bami organized a seminary using the method of club work. However, experience
said that such instruction is enough to keep the club working
at a certain average level. In order to raise it significantly
nogo height, constant supervision and supervision of work on site is necessary.
The absence of proletkult workers on the ground due to the organizational non-
ry mentioned above led to a weakening of the clubs’ connection with
1roletcult, especially when the work of the clubs has already improved. Then Pro-
letkult switched to a different system of instruction, attaching a club to each
responsible instructor, In total, there were 8 clubs covered: Club
at the 1st Model Printing House, Central Printers Club, Simonovsky
Club "Labor and Creativity", United No.: Podolsk Plants, United
Bakers Club, Shzeynikov Club, Club named after. Zilina (formerly Prosthetic Plant),
Club d. im. Kalyaeva; relations with other clubs remained
the former ones. On these 8 clubs you can trace the line that was drawn
Preletkult in club work,

The main task of the club’s work over the past winter was: to install new
forms of mass work that would make it possible to move from organizational
dedicated to propaganda work among the masses. This resulted in a number of very significant
particular tasks, such as: 1) establishing close interaction between mass and
circle work; 2) the restructuring of the circle appropriate for this purpose
work; 3) gradual transfer of the center of gravity of club work < artistic
to scientific or at least establishing some balance between these
two types.

yy

/ъ0
260 RUR In No. 8

The revolution in club work began with an attack on the most fortified
her position is art circles. At the beginning of autumn, there was a permanent situation in all clubs.
The question of the work of circles according to the plan of a unified art studio has been raised. Main
The principle of a single studio is that club clubs do not work for
reaching the depths of art, andfor the production of certain club work.
Hence, the content of all work must be consistent with the objectives of the club. Next,
It is recognized that there are no separate circles: music, drama
it. d., there is a single art studio divided into sections. Members of all
circles are united on a number of common subjects, and all circles are united on common
tasks. The job of the Drama Studio is therefore to produce the repertoire.
The literary studio publishes a newspaper and compiles scripts. Art makes posters, billboards, etc. d.
Muzo participates in productions, etc. If we remember the usual work of drama
studios, the main goal of which was to learn to be an actor, then then a priest.
the intensity with which music studios studied their art, the pictures that
were drawn in the Iso studio, it will become clear which wall had to be broken through
Proletkult in this one of the most essential parts of club work. In the clubs
who worked under the leadership of Proletkult for the second or even third year,
the restructuring of the artistic work was relatively easy, since they were already
prepared for it by all previous work. From the principles of a single studio
first of all, the new content of the work and the unification of all
studios for general productions; the situation was much more difficult with the introduction of general
for all students of compulsory subjects (physical education, choral singing, rhythmics,
as well as a number of socio-political subjects).

The Club takes first place in implementing the principles of a unified studio
1st Model Printing House. The drama studio of this Club was always working on
propaganda repertoire. The Studios available at the Club worked with her:
Art, Choral, Orchestra. He was brought in to stage the Komsomol Easter
and scientific circle. The studio staged a number of charades, dramatizations, ditties and
small plays. Of the latter, “The Shadow of Karl Liebknecht” is especially interesting, in
the action of which the Studio introduced cinematography. The studio has been operating for 2 years and has
such skill that some productions are staged independently, without a director.
sulfur EThis is also facilitated by the fact that over the years the studio members have greatly advanced in
political development. It is especially interesting to trace the evolution that
I did Studio Izo in this club. This studio was built very conservatively
in matters of art and, even worse, she was very apolitical; The club as a whole
she was not interested, did not want to help him. A series of conversations held with her—
on the one hand, and most importantly, constant involvement in general productions, on the other,
led to the fact that by the end of the year they enthusiastically, regardless of time,
worked for the Club, made scenery for revolutionary productions, decorated
Club it. d. They had to work on posters and playbills, and gradually
There was a significant shift in their views on art. Regarding the merger
all Studios in general classes, then so far we have managed to make it mandatory for everyone
only political literacy and physical education.

At the Central Printers Club we started with theoretical acquaintance
tions with the principles of a single studio. This question was discussed as in general
meetings of studio members, and at meetings of individual Studios. Definitely taken
course for production work at the Drama Studio and, what is especially rare, at the Art Studio.
Usually more apolitical studios—music and physical education—and here they offer
decided to refrain from any innovations. The drama studio came from Salomanskaya
caves", "Triumph" to "Uprising" and a whole series of agitations, reaching in this way
such results that on May 1st the public in the square was occupied for 4 hours
a very successful and well-made repertoire. From general classes introduced
physical education, in which the entire Drama Studio and part of the Choral Studio work, and political
diploma Work in terms of a single studio is being carried out at the Railway Club
No. 8 PROLTETGKULG, 261

im. Kalyaeva. In the United Bakers Club, local workers call the United
“The studio organized a Drama Studio there in January 1923, which really
works in production terms. Her productions “Soviet Diplomacy” and
“The Lord Is Sleeping” was a great success. The restThere are
one, ‘rarely two studios, and therefore here we can only talk about the direction
work in them. The oldest studios of Proletkult are in the areas: Simonovskaya and Podol-
‘skaya, who in previous years themselves took the path of mass work, at the beginning
winters left this path, taking up large productions in the spirit of the Artistic
theater, with a clear tendency to retreat into self-sufficient mastery. However, with
the beginning of 1923, their line of work leveled off.

The implementation of the principles of a single studio led to one very
interesting result in the field of artistic work of clubs—gradual
the disappearance of amateur clubs. So, at the beginning of January, the
The Drama Club, which worked very hard last year, was
Central Printers Club; in the Club of the 1st Exemplary Typography Circle, on-
reading about 5 years of work, has almost merged with the Studio, and is in
general productions, although it also has a separate instructor. United
The Bakers Club with the organization of the Studio Circle faded into the background.

The experience of introducing a single studio undoubtedly gave positive results,
both in the sense of bringing circle and mass work closer together, and expanding political
tic horizon of the studioites. To fully implement a single studio so that
as outlined in the program, almost no club has yet succeeded, because...
such work, naturally, requires much more time, but the line of development
artistic work has gone in this direction, and in the next club season you can
expect it to be fully processed.

Another point, very significant ‘for circle work in our clubs is
Bang, this is the growth of scientific teams. The case started spontaneously
general education courses, which initially pursued narrow practical
goals and were not related to club life. Taking into account the interest in general education
work, Proletkult took measures to introduce it into the framework of club work. There was once
a general program has been developed for all kinds of general education clubs, which
which established that every imagepersonal work can take place in the club at
based on natural science and social science. Further, programs were developed to
each course in such a way that maximum results are achieved with the most
less effort; it was made mandatory that all items passed
taught in general education circles would have a Marxist approach. For
implementation of these resolutions, the selection of appropriate training was organized
tsavateley and testing of teachers already available in the field. As a result—
a number of teachers in the Club of the 1st Exemplary Printing House were replaced, the composition was expanded
them in the United Bakers Club and given the entire composition of teachers at
Scientific Courses at the Central Printers Club. Thus, the main
dacha of the Club—development of a Marxist worldview for Club members, working
participants in the Courses was provided. The situation was worse with the retraction of these members
into general club work, although instructions in this regard were given locally.

Our work with general education courses would not have yielded great results.
achievements in the field of club construction, if not for the outstanding experience of the organization
tion of Scientific Courses at the Central Printers Club. The purpose of the Courses is to give
workers to master the Marxist method in the field of science. The program includes
general education subjects (including an extensive course in natural science),
a group of socio-political subjects and a group of issues from the field of technology
nicknames Only adult workers with extensive production experience are accepted for the Courses.
experience. Despite the fact that the Courses have been running only since March 1923, we have
‘great results. There was a group of workers who were very interested in scientific
‘and public issues, actively participating in the work (some courses

/5/

262 t br m. No. 8

conducted in a seminary way) and more and more clearly perceiving the fundamentals of Marxist
sky worldview. But what is especially interesting is that almost the entire group
entered the life of the Club and connected her work with the masses. Cadets participate
in the Club's newspapers, attend mass lectures where they are stuckspruce trees conversations,
take part in general excursions. In the last elections they’ got
a large number of seats on the Management Board, Audit Commission and other organizations
Club. In the future, a number of other measures are proposed to connect with mass work.

Restructuring the basic forms of circle work, in addition to the fact that it pre-
sets the only correct path for the development of circles, was the preparation
compelling for setting mass work on new tracks through close interaction
her action with mugs.
s Since the method of influence through artistic forms is now,
and will remain for a long time, the main method of club work, all attention
was focused on raising awareness of certain issues among the masses
through artistic groups. During the past season we were able to achieve
only that the main revolutionary holidays and the main religious
campaigns (Komsomol Christmas and Easter) were promoted in clubs by their
teams; At the same time, our clubs were given the task of giving not only
propaganda content, but also in such an artistic form that it reaches
to the worker and was remembered by them. This requires great skill, which
is achieved gradually. Therefore, of all the issues of club life, artistic
the collectives had to limit themselves only to political and religious motives.
hyous, her plays could not be in the repertoire. "Triumph", "Uprising",
“The Shadow of Karl Liebknecht”, “Soviet Diplomacy”, “Devilness”, “The Lord is Sleeping”
and some others—represented ‘something complete that could
call plays - everything else was improvisations, charades, live cinema, “re-
trushki”, etc. General exam for communication with the masses, our club work
withstood May 1, when each of them was a center in his area, attracting
calling all the spectators to him,

It is clear that the mass artistic work in the club did not end there,
and in order to replenish it, it was necessary to organize an exchange of studios and circles.
Most of all, especially among printers, circleswhich have been preserved.
in many more printing houses. To paralyze the spread of hack work,
which the circles carried with them, disputes were organized regarding the games played
plays. The debates revealed the great conservatism of the middle peasant worker in the
questions of art, both in relation to form and content, and showed the content
absolutely necessary to introduce into mass club work and discussion
theoretical issues of art. It is interesting to note that one such dispute
in the Central Club of Printers, in appearance as if it had even ended
in favor of the circle members, led to the fact that the same circle came to ask.
themselves as leaders of the instructor of the local Studio who spoke out against them.

The big drawback of our mass artistic work was the weak
distribution of mock trials and live newspapers. Spent in one
from the clubs, the trial of Father Sergius (staged not by the Proletkult club) was
attracted a large audience and, despite the not particularly successful start, the audience
stayed until the very end of the trial, which lasted well past midnight. In other clubs
bang we only had attempts to organize courts on our own, which,
due to the complexity of the work and the busyness of the studio workers, however, they were not given

towards the end.

RI to note another initiative related to art
important work of the club: in the buffet and living room of the club there is often a large
the number of workers, unemployed, very little processed by the club. To
somehow draw them into the circle of public interests, in the Central Club of Pe-
Chatnikov conducted an experiment in organizing a “revolutionary cabaret” in a buffet.
No. 8 PROLETKULT. 263

That evening a lot of people gathered at the Club, both regulars and
those who rarely visit the Club. For organizational reasons I had no experience
widespread, but undoubtedly deserves attention as one of
methods of mass work, especially suitable for raising everyday issues.

If we move on to the usual form of club work—lectures—then here too
we'll see a lot aboutlife, which was the result of the work done by Proletkul-
volume of work. Having sensed an interest in natural science among the broad masses, Proletkult developed
worked on the program of a series of lectures on biology and selected the appropriate one: their lectures
torov. These lectures are easy. contacted the public and served as preparation
to socio-political issues, in particular religious ones. Despite
extremely limited number of lecturers at the disposal of Prolet-
cult, he managed to serve all his clubs with lecturers on natural science and
highly qualified Marxist social activists. The lecture work was
the main form of mass work for the Podolsky, Simonovsky and Ob-
dinnogo Bakers Club. In Podolsk, lectures on natural science were collected
audience up to 1000 people. To characterize the attitude of Podolsk residents towards these
lecturers are interested in the following episode: at the entrance to the Club there is a crowd wanting to ps-
to attend a lecture, the lecturer makes his way through the crowd and asks him to let him in, saying,
what he needs for the lecture. Some worker who obviously did not know the lecturer
to his face, says to him: “Well, here, everyone needs to go to this lecture.” Scheduled series of lectures
in biology in Podolsk was completed in full and aroused the desire to organize
call club classes. Enjoyed great success at the Podolsk Club
and socio-political lectures, thanks mainly to the brilliant
mass lecturer We listened to the lectures on technology with interest, but with less interest
were concerned with issues of the trade union movement. The audience took a very active part,
the lecturer often received up to 300 notes.

At the Simonov Club, the same lecturer on natural science gathered an audience
200-300 people (maximum audience capacity). Enjoyed success
also: series of lectures “Christianity and Socialism” and lectures on social hygiene
and technology. If for qualified metalworkers, which are sub-
ts and Simonovites, the interest in the lectures is very understandable, then for the Bakers Club the audio
tory at a lecture of 300 people was the result of both organizational and good
deliveredlecture work. This Club also hosted a complete
a cycle on natural science, two small cycles on religious issues and a series
lectures on technological achievements. In other clubs, mainly at the printing press,
kov, the same lecturers gathered small audiences of 50-60 people, which is up to
to a certain extent can be explained by the habit of printers to independently
reading.

A significant omission for the mass work of clubs was the lack of Pro-
letcult of the well-earned excursion plan, which significantly undermined the
implementation of the most important type of club work—excursions. Here we come-
I wanted to use, in the same way as other clubs, what K.O. MGSPS gave.
Therefore, excursions were arranged randomly, not systematically, and somehow did not include
were kept in the main captivity of the work, despite the fact that they tried to connect them with medicine
tions and other working clubs. The United
Bakers Club, then the Central Printers Club and the 1st Model Typography Club
graphics; the remaining clubs are much smaller. When reviewing mass work
It is also worth paying attention to the issue of libraries. Almost all clubs
the cleaning of libraries from useless books, cluttering
obstructing the library and catalogue, making it difficult for the reader and librarian. Assuming
ongoing cleansing campaign with the participation of the broad masses, due to the difficulty of organizing,
was postponed until the next club season. The composition of managers has been revised
libraries and reading rooms, as a result of which in most clubs in
Responsible political workers have been placed in charge of this work; significantly more

132,
264 HORN. No. 8

the composition of the libraries and reading room and in general the library-reading room in the club work-
those are allocated the significant place that it should occupy in essence.

Summing up the results of our club work over the past period of 1922-1923,
we can say that, both for organizational reasons and for serious
of the tasks set, the work in the clubs has not yet yielded final results,
i.e. we can'tLet us point to not one of these clubs as exemplary
in the full sense of the word. During this time, developed and implemented
Only certain parts of the club’s work have been implemented, but the line of development is intended
is correct, and the task of the next winter season is to rebuild on the basis of this
experience of the entire club body.

Raisa Ginzburg.
PROLET CULTS ON THE SITE.
TVERSKY PROLETKULT.

The Tver Proletkult was a provincial center for about five years, uniting
reaching up to five district Proletkults, but due to different conditions (lack of
funds, experienced leaders) district Proletkults ceased to exist.
Some of them had valuable achievements: for example, in the field of art—Torzhok
(choir), staged and performed by the Scientific Studio (Rzhev).

Tver Proletkult has Studios: Teo, Iso, Lit-krug, Muzo - according to class. pianos,
domra, choir classes, physical education (compulsory subject for everyone) and club courses
nal trainee instructors, general and specialist area managers
clubs, circles.

In Studios and Courses, along with the study of special issues
art—general education and political education are seriously
naya work. The following were introduced as compulsory subjects: 1) basic issues of political science;
spendthrifts, owls construction, 2) political economy in connection with the history of culture, 3) historical
ical materialism, 4) history of the labor movement in Russia and the West, 5) historical
ria social teachings, 6) world economy and capitalism, 7) current situation
world economy and in the RSFSR, 8) linguistics, Russian language, 9) mathematics,
10) world studies (synthetic course: chemistry, physics, zoology, anatomy, biology
it. d.), 11) study of labor, the ABC of labor, acquaintance with crafts, with production.

The studios are built according to the principle of the Unified Studio of the Moscow Proletkult,
communicate about their achievements, partly mutually study the areas of their production
Vodstvo Over the past season, the work of Theo-studio, which made 36
steps in different areas of the city. Theo's repertoire included: “Mexican”, “Three
Jesus"“Labor”, “Uprising” (Republished “The Agony of the World”, “Tsar-Hunger”
(reworking of Andreev’s play), “Among the Flames” (after P. M. Kerzhentsev), “May”
(propaganda, parody of the “United Capitalist Front”), coll. recitation, etc.

Proletkult's performances are marked with the local press, reporting performances -
Lito, Theo, Muzo, and part of the Izo exhibition deserved gratitude from Lips. Congress
The trade unions for which these performances were organized.

The domra orchestra also carried out maintenance work (13 performances during the season)
and at the same time studied folk songs, foreign musical works
denies, transcribed into sheet music for orchestra of works by proletarian poets.

During the season, the 2nd group, domra, was prepared for performances, the general composition of the orchestra
ste 30 people; performances are popular in working-class and urban areas

believe. )

The art studio works under the guidance of a constructivist artist, but studies
all directions are technical, without assigning one or another bias. Bli-
The most practical goal (partly there are implementations) is a poster, decorative
art, illustration, popular print, cartoon, slogans, modeling.

The literary circle has only been organized for two months, about 35 works have been sorted out,
accepted 20, work is carried out exclusively through creative and critical means, -
Part of the study is correspondence, stylistics, journalism, methods of the proletarian
sky art criticism, a collection is being prepared.

Club Courses will finish by June 10-15, and cadets will be assigned
we to local clubs in order to provide methodological guidance to the work of the circles.
{®

266 ee a 9 no.

There are 115 studio workers in total, of which 20 are production-related workers.
65 children of workers, 30 children of employees and peasants.

There is a RKSM cell; In total there are 24 people in Proletkult. RKSM.

In addition to the internal work and maintenance of the Arts Studios, Prolet-
the cult has connections with local workers' clubs, supplies them with methodological and programmatic
materials, some of the more experienced studio workers supervise the work of the dramatic
ical circles.

So—the hard work of the organization. composition and the studios themselvesiytsev—in the past se-
zone managed to establish work, establish contact with the masses, local organizations
tions; successful performances create a good attitude towards Proletkult in the masses
sah and local organizations.

IVANOVO-VOZNESENSKY. PROLETKULT.

In recent months—February-May—the work has expanded. Arrival in February
lecturers and workers from the center pushed the work that was frozen. Remaining
two Studios Iso and Teo, with a predominantly social composition of workers (mostly
most members of the RCP and RKSM), earned more intensively, with a surge of new strength and
materials from the center.

Theater Studio, with a change of director and addition to the work program
lectures on Marxist analysis of the most important moments in the history of art and theater,
came to life. Preparations for Komsomol Easter began in mid-March. Were taken
into the work of the play “Neporzach” by S. Tretyakov and “The Resurrection of Christ”, written
on the spot, on the instructions of the RKP Ukom for holding Komsomol Easter, one of
Proletkult workers. At the same time, by the day (the Lena events were resumed)
Pletnev’s play “Lena” was presented. In order to work on studying acting technique
and elaboration of propaganda methods (in terms of work in an open area)
theaters were worked on and at the end of March 2 propaganda films were staged
on the topics of the day: 1) Fascism, 2) Ruhr. They were accompanied by a prologue-clownery, accompanied by
driven by the work of the acrobatic group. These two productions of Fascism-Ruhr, unfortunately
nia, could not be given according to the planned plan, because: a) there were no funds
to sew original costumes and had to use existing ones, from
why the production suffered greatly, 6) there were no funds and sufficient preparation
from the Izo studio to develop the set design planned by the director, -
they played in cloth, and where there was none, on a bare stage and a simple machine-stool
penalties. Despite all these defects, both plays were well received internationally.
stakh and were staged at the Soviet Theater in Ivanovo, in the 2 largest workers
clubs in Ivanovo and 6 workers' clubs in the districts.

Komsomol Easter bwas held by Proletkult Studios in Ivanovo and
in two working-class districts - Bonyachkinsky and Kineshma.

Plan for Easter propaganda (anti-religious) campaign
and celebration of the memory of the Lena events was adopted in the Union of Textile Workers without any
defeats and sanctioned by the Propaganda Department of the Provincial Committee.

In Ivanovo, on Holy Saturday and on the first day of Easter, the following plays were performed:
“The Resurrection of Christ” and “Neporzach”, accompanied by reports on the topic: “Celebration
nickname of Easter and the Christian religion" and "Was there a Christ". With the same repertoire,
plus Pletnev’s play “Lenl” and the agitation “Ruhr”, Theo Studio went to areas where
worked from April 10-16, giving performances every day. The work was done in working hours
clubs in Bonyachki, Tezin, Golchikha, Tomna and at the Annensky factory in Kinesh-
skom district. The productions were advertised with posters designed by the Studio
Iso. These first large poster works of the Studio emphasized the unprepared
the Studio's affinity for utilitarian production work and pushed for greater work
both in this direction. Works commissioned by workers' clubs for evenings
Copernicus, were already made much better. On May Day performance Studio
№8 PROLETHULT 267

Iso has already produced quite good poster works in decorating the area and
made 2 symbolic figures: a French officer and a bourgeois; so good
their fear was noted, that when the masses of demonstrators passed by,
Laughter, witticisms, and screams were heard abruptly.

In a number of other orders, Studio Izo successfully executed for Lip-
trade council 3 portraits with oil paints (size 2-21/, arsh.) t.t. Lenin, Trots-
whom, Tomsky.

Recently, Proletkult received an offer from the editors of “Rab.Kray” and the journal
Nala "Tkach" to give an artist studio to work on sketches on topical topics
to the newspaper, for zincography of the magazine “Tkach” and a sketch of the magazine cover.

During the May Day celebration, Theo Studio presented the “Ruhr” campaign on the
have mercy in the evening. We had to play in the rain, despite the fact that the play was
dena completely.

It should be noted that the seriouscurrent position of the Ivanovo-Voznesensk span
cult. On the part of local organizations, the attitude towards Proletkult is very demanding.
important, everything is always new, well-developed, and at the same time
consider it necessary for Proletkult to perform at all festivals and always
with new material. Example: Komsomol Christmas, held exclusively
by the forces of Proletkult, March 8th, Komsomol Easter, May 1st,—pro-
the intervals between the festivities are insignificant, insufficient to work out serious
productions There was a request from the Textile Workers' Union to give to the Gubernia Congress (May 20)
production, “Gas” was being prepared, a revised play by Keyser, begun back in April,
but, of course, working on a large play in 1 month cannot be considered profound. In-
intensive, forced work in February-May was very difficult in this sense
loy, overworking studio workers who worked from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.
daily; almost weekly, and sometimes 2-3 times a week performances. This
With its work, Proletkult once again identified and emphasized its tasks. Among the masses Pro-
letkult with these works further increased interest in itself. Further work
at this pace, of course, is impossible, since it inevitably pushes aside and reduces
training part. For example, intensive preparation for the anti-religious campaign
research on Komsomol Easter was forced to be completely suspended for 2 weeks
work on other academic subjects. This greatly affects the planned
work, but, on the other hand, the difficult financial situation forces re-
burden yourself with demonstrative work.

Lack of employees (Proletkult has 2 senior permanent employees,
The 3rd, who received leave, fell ill and remained in the south - of the 2 working windows, one
thoroughly overtired) is also of enormous importance.

General conclusion. At the cost of accelerated production work Proletkult
gradually. gains the attention of local organizations, but this comes after
It is not always enough for organizations to have a correct understanding of the tasks of the Prolet-
cult, too expensiveno, to the detriment of in-depth educational and creative work.

It is necessary to strengthen the Gubproletkult by workers, mainly organiza-
nizators and leaders of club work. Setting up 1-2 workers’ clubs as
exemplary and their rapprochement in work with Proletkult is the best way to bring
relationships with local trade unions and party organizations. This beginning of rapprochement
The event is also celebrated by local organizations. So, for example, in Ivanovo-Voznesen-
Sky gas. “Labor” for 261\\—23 No. 90 comrade. Tar (Gubernaya Trade Council) writes: “We need to
to finally mark the shift of the local Gubproletkult from a dead point. Thanks to the
workers who left the center did not notice any sharp deviations in the work of Proletkult.
is expected. In the name of common mass work, Proletkultists do everything to avoid
there was friction between them and us. We are going to meet them!”!)

1) 0t edition. Most of Proletkult's reports from the field will be posted.
in the next issue.

137
268 Yu.R m No. 8

VLADIMIR DMITRIEVICH BUZIN.

He was a staunch fighter on the political and cultural front.

As a member of the RCP, he firmly believed in the working class and its triumph,
and, striving to achieve the latter, he devotes all his strength to awaken more
unconscious workers, to instill in them confidence in themselves and their purpose. Thanks to him
energy, the party was replenished with perhaps more than a dozen conscious members
new RKP and RKSM.

He spent his short life in struggle and work. The son of a worker, he
did not have the opportunity to receive an education, but, thanks to natural gifts,
He managed to educate himself and throughout his work he expanded his knowledge. Up to 17 years old
he worked in workers' circles in Moscow on | ›lighting workers, but his work
did not satisfy within limited limits. . After the October Revolution he became
a member of the RCP and threw himself into work with all his energy and enthusiasm; worked
among the railway workers of the Kursk region, with his participation in the Bauman region
There was a Workers' Club named after Kalyaev.

early 1920 comrade. Buzin ends up in the Urals (Ekaterinburg). He is happy
I realized that I was in an industrial area where you canbring back cultural work
among the workers who had recently freed themselves from Kolchak’s whip. He refused
from the personal “I”, forgot about the family and completely went into work. And, despite the overload
the importance of working at the Headquarters of the Eastern District of Vsevobuch, where he did a lot of work,
combining several responsibilities for lack of employees, comrade. Buzin accepted
enthusiastic participation in the organization of Proletkult. Soon he was released from Headquarters
completely and switched to Proletkult work, where, also for lack of
employees, in addition to secretarial duties, performed various duties. Despite
to the difficult financial situation of 20-21, despite all the blows and
greedy for Proletkult, even from party comrades, comrade. Elderberry firmly
supports the spirit of comrades who are ready to quit their jobs and give up.

During his work at Proletkult, he organized several studios, where
only workers were accepted and the proletkult program was carried out, and where
The instructors worked under his leadership. He himself ran all day long
to the Party, made reports, worked in Proletkult, conducted
conversations, and in the evening he studied at the Drama Studio at the Zhel.-Dor Club. named after Voyner.
The composition here was exclusively working, advanced. Comrade Buzin was in this
Studio for everyone: both the teacher, and when, with his intense work, it was possible from this
Studios to open the 1st Workers' Theater in the Urals, director, decorator, prop maker.
lecturer, musician, playwright and actor. It was kind of relentless
a mechanism that works 20 hours a day. }

But, already working in a production position, Comrade. Buzin didn’t look away
from life; he was aware of everything, tried to instill attentiveness in his comrades
to life and instill proletarian class consciousness. His constant words:
“Comrades, there is no need to break away from those from whom you came, but you came from the heart
worker; Working in the theater, we must always be on our guard; if we need it
go to the factory, plant, we will go; If we need to go to the front, let’s take rifles and let’s go!”
And with his fiery words he lit up the graydza workers; they firmly believed
into him and his words, and the words reached their goal, not a single cleanup worker of the Studio
missed, all campaigns and events in the RSFSR were noted by the Studio. Thankfully
By giving this, Proletkult won sympathy among the workers, and the workers' Unions
in difficult moments for Proletkult they are its support. But Comrade Buzin led
and political work: along with work in Proletkult, he has all the responsibilities
party and active member of the RCP. }

7
#5
No. 8 PROLETKULT. 269

In the summer of 1922, the Workers' Theater headed by Comrade. Buzin worked in “Houses”
Rest" Trade Unions; in addition to his duties at the Theater, comrade. Buzin led the cultural
educational work among vacationing workers, who limitlessly
loved as a comrade, a friend, loved for his humor, which did not leave him until
last days. Small, a little lame, he rolls in quickly like a ball
in the midst of workers who joyfully greet him; a conversation begins about the current
moment; a lot of questions, but comrade. Buzin skillfully answers everything, and, listening to him,
the workers are inspired, their eyes sparkle, they greedily hang on every word. Conversation
ends with noise: “Volodya, tell me more.” “Yes, Comrade Buzin, tell me more!” He
tired, but continues; after finishing, the workers accompany him home and again
endlessly asking questions.

At the end of June he falls ill with typhus. Already sick, he takes part in the play
le, in a comic role; the next day he is taken to the hospital, where
8 days later—July 6, 1922—he dies, being only 24 years old, irreplaceable
a worker among the working class and Proletkult, a faithful worker of the RCP.

M.M.

ALEXANDER IVANOVICH ZUGRIN.

I met Alexander Ivanovich Zugrin in 1919, at the beginning
September, upon my arrival from Ukraine. A.I. just arrived before
at the Moscow Proletkult as a studio artist. It was a young man of about 19, walking
in a blouse, in army boots, in a cap, from under which came reddish
hair. The face is pale and thin, the eyes are thoughtful and focused.

V.I. quickly gained sympathy among us,studio people - we loved him.
He spoke little about himself, but from the few words he shared, it is clear
It turned out that his life was not very good.

Before entering Proletkult, he had just arrived from Nizhny Novgorod.
Novgorod, where the older brother worked in a factory transferred to Moscow; with him
his family also lived there. In Nizhny A.I. it was necessary to unload and load wagons,
clear streets and clear snow from roofs. If he ever got started
money, his first duty was to buy paper, pencil and paint, and in his free time
spent time drawing or writing sketches.

A. I. fell in love with painting since school. While in Petrograd,
he joined the photographer as an apprentice retoucher, but this job was not for him
to his liking, he wanted to go to art school. But how was it
tsarist government, the son of a worker or peasant gets into a government educational institution
institution, especially without artistic training and tuition fees, and
also for livelihood? In Petrograd, A.I. goes to metal
factory, first as a student, then as an apprentice turner; in the evening he goes to draw
To “encourage the arts,” and on holidays he works or writes sketches. Of the few
sketches and drawings that A.I. preserved from his moves from Petrograd to Nizhny,
from Nizhny to Moscow, most impressed me: a sketch of a windmill
mills and outskirts. Petrograd. At Proletkult he was interested in left-wing painting.
The instructors took him seriously for his hard work and perseverance. Self-image
A.I. studied a lot, bought and borrowed books from the library, more and more
related to art. 1920 was the most difficult year; some walked like shadows
for a month or more they did not eat bread, but ate only frozen potatoes.
Zugrin spoke little about himself, how he lived and ate at that time. He's bigger
he was most worried when he had no paints or linoleum, nothing with which to cut
cliche.

{857
; 96 rbe y ke? oh my god

270 rona No. 8

In the summer of 1920, A.I. wrote a poster—children’s clubs—for an exhibition in
Polytechnic Museum. I saw this pLakat, and I was amazed how much love
A.I. related to the lives of children and their future creative activities. I saw there
and other posters written by academicians of the old school, but they were dry,
soundless pictures, they did not contain that living proletarian soul that you put into them
V.I. in your poster. E,

In 1922, A.I. was often ill; everyone advised that he go to the hospital
thorium, but he was afraid that he would fall behind on his work. Worked a lot: illustrations, covers
for the magazines “Create” and “Forge”. Zugrin's latest work is constructive
the banner of the food industry, which was carried out under his leadership, "

A. I. Zugrin would have given a lot in constructive and production work, but
untimely death tore from our ranks a young, talented
proletarian artist,

On March 11, 1923, he died of tuberculosis.

Studio mate G. Volnukhin.

_ CHRONICLE
INHUN.
(Institute of Artistic Culture).

INHUK is officially a scientific society uniting masters of left
art, its peculiarity, which distinguishes it from a number of other similar societies,
is that it is a creative organization par excellence, where
ideology of artistic consciousness. :

In ideological terms, the work of INKHUK can be divided into two headings:
on the one hand, the recognition of easel forms as not meeting the needs of the revolution
tion today, and on the other hand, the development of the idea of production art, as
ideas conditioned by the entire dialectic of development of economic and political
and in connection with the active social role performed by the proletariat.

In practical terms, the work of INHUK has two main lines: constructivism
and production start.

One of the last tasks facing INHUK is the preparation of a series of
publications that should cover both the practical work of its members and
and the ideological platform as a whole.

N. T—in.

VKHUTEMAS.
(Higher Artistic and Technical Workshops).

It is difficult to find another institution that, in such a relatively short
time would have been able to do so many times, and almost everytimes fundamentally,
reorganize.

All these reforms and reorganizations, by the way, are always happening
with great noise, created a special popularity in the artistic circles of VKHUTEMAS
polarity; this popularity developed as a result of long and stubborn battles, which
active workers of VKHUTEMAS had to endure, - first of all,
mainly to communist students, in the struggle for revolutionary
establishing an art school, for cleansing the school of scholasticism in the struggle
against apoliticality, “autonomy”, etc. d., it, d.

The main thing is about the work on the merits.

It ultimately boiled down to the transformation of science and art from
means of enslavement into a means of emancipation of the working masses.

Since the old royal school was a citadel and ideological
and practical reaction, this school had to be destroyed. It was impossible
however, to do this simply by closing the school: it was impossible to stop the reproduction
production of skilled labor, it was necessary to organize
a school that corresponds to the new content in its methods of work. Next—
the school could not fulfill its purpose if its composition did not change,
i.e. proletarianization would not have been fully carried out. / finally, from what
the old school, in the person of even its best representatives, waved it off in every possible way,
this is the connection between the school and the specific conditions of production.

Chronologically, these paths were carried out at VKHUTEMAS in this order. First
the blow was directed towards the destruction of the old school, the point of departure

18
274 ge No. No. 8

this period—Intercity (Moscow, St. Petersburg) Conference of art students
ny schools and studios, which existed in April 1918. Many higher educational institutions
at that time they were entirely or almost entirely on the other side of the barricade. That
that art school students ended up on this side is explained by the fact that
It was relatively affordable to enroll in these schools; the low fees attracted
here are the poorest elements of the working intelligentsia and office workers. Half the lineup
the conference fell on theprivate schools and studios with evening classes and
an even cheaper board, therefore even more affordable.

This conference developed a new type of art school called
nium of the State Free Workshops.

Freedom was understood as, firstly, free access for students, and secondly
attracting artists unrecognized by the old government and, thirdly, freedom
teaching. In fact, this resulted in “freedom from teaching,” but this
conferences could not be foreseen.

At the conference there was a split with the students of the Academy of Arts, who
left the conference.

After this conference, the entire RSFSR was overcome by a spontaneous desire to open
State Free Workshops - they open in almost every
volosts; There were also those in which there were no students, but ‘there were only
drivers.

A positive feature of Free Workshops. was that, having opened a free
access to schools, they made it possible for workers and employees to enter there;
thus the Workshops became proletarianized.

In Moscow, instead of the Stroganov School, the 1st Free
Workshops; instead of the School of Painting, Sculpture and Architecture - 1st Free
Workshops. .

Although the leaders in both the 1st and 2nd Workshops were almost the same,
However, in terms of the composition of students, the I-e Workshops turned out to be more radical. Summer
1919, a co-organized cell of the RCP, with a part grouped around it
proletarian students, begins to openly “interfere” in school affairs.

In general, the VKHUTEMAS students had an exceptional role: all
these orientations towards artistic youth on the part of the central authorities are essentially
were oriented towards a large, strong and united force of organized
students; in fact, the students through their organized opinion
could influence the artistic policy not only of his school, but also of
tough politics in general.

At that time it was already clear that the Free Workshops were fulfilling their
positive role in the sense of destroying the old school, and that it is time to takethere is
for organizing a new school. Meanwhile, program-free Free Workshops
were not such a school, especially since all management was in the hands of the
horny bureaucracy.

And now the cell more precisely formulates its requirements for the school, namely:
1) there can be no school without a program, 2) down with the counter-revolutionary profession
sura, 3) transfer the management of the school into the hands of the students. In 1st Workshop cells
there was no, but the student executive committee (the active part of the headman), at least
strongly supported the cell's demand.

Despite persistent and categorical demands, the Iso department
no efforts were made to improve school work. Then the cell starts
as a last resort - declares the Council of Workshops dissolved and, in the person of its
representatives, occupies its premises.

At the beginning of 20, the executive committee of the 1st Workshops again raised the question of the need
the ability to develop a program and organize student participation
in management.
No. 8 CHRONICLE A. 275

Finally, the Art Department convened in June 1920 the All-Russian Conf.
Rent of teachers and students of Art workshops. The Conference adopted a resolution
update: schools must have programs with a laboratory teaching method;
schools should be divided into higher and secondary; students are allowed to
all organs on a parity basis; merge { and And Moscow Workshops.

This is where the history of VKHUTEMAS begins in its proper sense.

A program is being developed by the notorious artistic and scientific disciplines"
us. Little by little communists returning from the front and those remaining active
workers begin work on organizing students, a frenzied
campaign for disciplines, the best forces of young professors are attracted here
and students sent from the province. VKHUTEMAS is experiencing an absolute re-
population, the cell begins to campaign for the organization of the Worker
Faculty. In the fall of 1920, the Workers' Faculty was opened.

The organization of the Workers' Faculty takes a lot of effort from the active part of the workers,
have to work on several fros at oncentov, and failure in one place could
would undo all the work.

At the beginning of 1921, the organizational successes of VKHUTEMAS were clearly determined.
VKHUTEMAS very quickly and successfully coped with the onslaught of the old professoriate, leaving
outside the school, which tried to blow up VKHUTEMAS from the inside, organizing
a small part of the unlucky, confused students.

This attack further united both the students and the leg that went with them
in step with the “young” professor. .

VKHUTEMAS has not achieved complete organizational success to this day:
Along with workshops that have both programs and methods, there are quite a few
the quality of “dark corners” where the revolutionary broom has not visited. In the majority
cases, these places are under the protection of the Almighty and are safely
are wary of any revolutionization.

The development of a large campaign dates back to the same time, the beginning of 21
for production faculties.

The production faculties of VKHUTEMAS ‘a, although they were included in its countless
schemes, but in fact it was all on paper.

In incredibly difficult conditions, among thousands of hardships, in the complete absence
material resources, work begins on equipping faculties with the necessary
smoking machines and recycling in relation to this training programs.

Again, here the initiative comes from the student executive committee, which started
processing of one's own professorship and then a wide campaign for training
directly at the production itself, agitation among students for the necessary
consumption of ITPI in production. The results of this work should ultimately
were to provide a specialist trained for a specific area of production, for
a certain stage of its development, i.e. in fact, this would establish inextricability
a new connection between school and life; students would be trained in two ways
main lines: 1) studying the subject according to the latest word in science and art
quality and 2) its application in specific production.

Although VKHUTEMAS has achieved some results in terms of equipment, everything
there is still more to come in this areaIt's a huge job. This is a device
and school methods to modern concrete production and will be the closest
the focal point of the work of VKHUTEMAS.

This note does not allow us to dwell on the influence that
VKHUTEMAS provided assistance to other schools in the province. In general, VHUT EMAS
was a kind of magnetic beacon that illuminated the path around itself far away,
and attracted the strongest elements of the student body.

Sergey Senkin.
18*
276 and 9th No. 8

THEATER-WORKSHOP OF VSEVOLOD MEYERHOLD.

Theater of Vsevolod Meyerhold (I mean not only the theater, formally
bearing this name since the end of 1922, but also the entire work of Vs. Um. Meyerhold
in the premises of theater 6. Zone for 1920-1923) is defined as the first, revolutionary
tionizing the form of theatrical action based on an active struggle for
social revolution. From “Zor” (7/X1-1920) and (“Mysteries-Buff” (IU 1921)
theater Sun. Meyerhold came to “The Magnanimous Cuckold” (25L\U 1922),
who made a formal revolution in modern theater. This performance is
a product of GVYTM'a's laboratory work (about GVYTM*e further). first practical
using biomechanics—a system of stage movements that reveal health
a new construction of man, strengthened by physical culture. In "Great"
stuffy Cuckold” refusal to reproduce “vital”—in fact, inorganic
called-movements, rejection of arbitrary invention of movements and affirmation
simple, schematized and at the same time the most expressive movements
in full compliance with their stage assignments. Regarding things on stage—-
rejection of figurativeness, affirmation of the utility of material design
scenes: a three-dimensional installation, each part of which performs specific
functions in the play (model of the design of GVYTM student V. Lyutse, corrected
bathed then by L.S. Popova). The director's interpretation is extremely original:
the psychological, even psychopathic plot of the play Krommlanka is neutralized
the most effective and p form of staging Sun. Meyerhold.

FollowingThe final production by V. E. Meyerhold - “The Death of Tarelkin” (24/X! - 1922)
- in terms of folk farce. Installations similar to the design of the Magnanimous
“Cuckold”, not on stage: instead of it, furniture (work by V.F. Stepanova), again
schematic and constructed with a tendency towards its greatest use in
acting. Sukhovo-Kobylin's play is interpreted in terms of bright grotesque.

The last production of the last season—“The Earth on End” (4/—1923)—
M. Martinet’s play “Night”, remade by S. M. Tretyakov. Reworking of the play
was caused by an abundance of rhetoric and a lack of expressiveness in the text. There were
large bills were made; the remaining text was rearranged: deleted
unnecessary words, in many phrases the words were rearranged so that the text became
compressed and percussive. Household items were thrown away; action takes place
in modernity, abstracted from the locality. And here is a peculiar interpretation:
the anti-militarist plot retained its character in terms of agitation against
bourgeois militarism, but, at the same time, the form of the production puts forward a military
organization as the most harmonious organization of human groups.
No wonder the director’s work is Vs. Meyerhold is dedicated to “The Red Army and Per-
to the first Red Army soldier of the RSFSR Leon Trotsky." “The Earth on End” is not a copy
events of war and uprising, but a schematized military-revolutionary action.
There are military detachments on the stage, moving: a real car, motorcycles,
bicycles. Lighting is provided by military spotlights. In all eight episodes
Dah plays, illuminated propaganda posters give shocking fighting slogans. S. M. Tretyakov pro-
also carried out work on speech editing; the word is organized in the direction of greatest
talent and expressiveness. The agitational nature of the play is intensified and emphasized everywhere.
| this gives the play a number of moments of deep tragedy and, on the other hand, acute
satires. “The Land on End” is an exceptional success among workers, Red Army soldiers and students.
working proletarians. h

This is the production of the Meyerhold Theater. But the organizational side also has
zcesis of great importance. The fact is that all the actors of the Vs. Meyerhold—
students of the Workshop Vs. Meyerhold. This workshop is made up of three parts:
a group of comrades with professional acting experience and students of Gi I
No. 8 CHRONICLE. t

courses. “Profacters”, to which the performers of the “Magnanimous Ro-
messenger“, constituted the Workshop of Vs. Meyerhold under GVYTM (State
Higher Theater Workshops), and students of the PI course are the main course of this university
(1921-1922).

In the fall of 1922, GVYTM was merged with the State Institute of Music
Noy Drama (GIMDRA)—GITIS (State Institute of Theatrical Theater) was formed
art). But very soon life showed that the joint work of these two
organizations is impossible - the fundamental differences are too great:
‘Movtsy came to GITIS with a certain revolutionary theatrical ideology,
and the Himdrovites were at the mercy of the most unfounded aesthetic prejudices -
cov. V. E. Meyerhold left GITIS, and behind him his entire Workshop, his entire course
(6. GVYTM), all the director’s and “most of the acting department of the 1st year (introductory
drinking at GITIS in the same autumn of 1922). These groups formed the current Ma-
Meyerhold's theater, which was entirely included in the work of the Meyerhold Theater. Peripeteia
The break with GITIS dragged on for six months and is still not over. This is
on the one hand, it was the reason that academic work, brilliantly started
in GVYTM*e, could not be carried out on a large scale in Meyerhold’s Workshop.
Another reason was the extremely difficult situation of the Theater and Workshop:
even the refusal of the entire artistic staff of the Theater from any payment for work
made it impossible to finish the season without a deficit. The theater was always standing in front of
threat of closure due to lack of funds (no subsidies from either the Theater or the Master
they do not receive) and a huge debt, and now this danger is not eliminated
dilated. ‚

All the enormous work of organizing again and maintaining existence
under conditions of extreme difficulty andTheater and Workshop conducted by ourselves
students in the person of their chosen Bureau of St. Petersburg and allocated by the latter
The board of the Theater under the leadership of V. E. Meyerhold was, of course, completely
free of charge. I have already mentioned that all the artistic staff work
Tal without pay, and the artistic staff are all students, since all
The workshop took part in performances. Moreover, by the end of the season, due to the same lack-
money had to be cut from almost all the workers and employees of the Theater, so the students
dents took on the work of monitoring, installing structures, and
lighting the stage with spotlights - again, free of charge. Their composition is workers,
peasants and working intelligentsia. The vast majority of these comrades find
lives in extremely difficult material conditions.

Meyerhold's workshop is an exclusively ideologically welded organization
nation not only in its artistic views, but also in its political
beliefs

‚ In the elections to the Moscow Council, the entire Workshop, as one person, voted
for the RCP, without succumbing to the exhortations of the representative of the left Socialist-Revolutionaries, which, unfortunately,
leniya, one cannot say about other artists who participated in the electoral
meeting. At all demonstrations of the Moscow proletariat, the Workshop invariably
comes out with his banners. Theater Sun. Meyerhold was the first to give away the entire collection from
one of the performances in favor of the Red Air Fleet.

As for the work of students, in addition to the main three plays, on stage
The theater showed the students' directorial works!! course by V. Fedorov (extracted
wok from Claudel's "Giara Vecgue", N. Ecca ("Epidemic" after Mirbeau), K. Goltseva and
I. Kritsberg (“Immaculate Conception” by S. M. Tretyakov) and later K. Goltsev
and N. Loiter (“Paris Commune” Gordienko), who gave a number of very interesting
approaches and implementations.

Students of the Meyerhold Workshop lead the work of many drama clubs
factory (Krasnopresnenskaya Trekhgornaya Manufactory 6. Prokhorova,
Red Defense, etc.), Red Army Komsomol, university and educational institutionsdaily

th

/39
278 g ORZE No. 8

ski clubs. The workshop carried out performances on the instructions of the Central Committee of the Young Communists on the days
Komsomol Christmas in all areas of Moscow, staged: “Immaculate
Conception” by Comrade Tretyakov and “Christmas Night” by Comrade Kirshon. May 1 in some
districts, Workshop students gave a number of performances and organized processions.
The preliminary results of all this work were summed up at a meeting held in May
Workshop instructor conferences Sun. Meyerhold. All instructors for
the basis was taken on a political and educational line of work; active participation in
all revolutionary holidays, a living newspaper, etc. Everywhere there is an increase in in-
res and sympathy of the working masses for the Vs. Theater. Meyerhold and his system, thanks
to which the instructors of the Meyerhold Workshop were forced out of the enterprise in many places
yatiy old hack specialists. The conference decided to contact all organizations
nations in charge of theatrical work among the masses; install in the work itself
close contact with the cells of the RCP and RKSM, cultural commissions, and others. artistic
national, as well as Marxist circles, giving all the work a political
educational character, abandoning the development of theatrical specialists; in autumn
convene a second Instructors' Conference.

Soon after the 1st Congress of the Comintern in Moscow, the Workshop organized
a closed demonstration evening of his works for members of the Comintern, and then from
indoor international arts meeting, chaired by T. N. Chuzhak,
with reports from foreign and Russian comrades. T. T. members of the Comintern show
exceptional interest in the Meyerhold Theater and often visit it. Among
The Theater considers its foreign friends T. T. Serrati, `Maffi (Italy), McKay,
Amtera, Ashley (America), Nezameddin, Ahmed-Cevada (Türkiye), Tsesaretsa (South Sla-
Via), Malacca (Java), etc.

A group of Workshop students organized a Student Information
tion Bureau for the Arts (STINF), which has set itself the goal of creating
scientific artistic information. STINF provided information about artistic
lifeneither Moscow, the provinces and abroad in Moscow newspapers and theater magazines
cash; his work was recognized by the editors as very successful. But the same absence
funds prevented us from continuing work in this direction, and STINF
I had to temporarily turn it off. It is planned to begin work in print in the fall
in a broader sense, .

The extremely poor situation of the Theater largely determines
Xia contingent of its visitors. Napman, of course, does not like this kind of theater. See-
The hall is filled with workers, Red Army soldiers, students and labor
intelligentsia. This circumstance forces the Theater to produce huge amounts of
availability of free and discounted tickets. For 4 months free tickets were issued
about 7,000, preferential (75% discount/))—about 14,000, significantly more than pro-
ticket data. In all of Moscow, this audience is served by only two theaters: Te-
atr Sun. Meyerhold and the Theater of the Revolution. It is therefore clear that, despite the fact
that part of the press at one time was engaged in intense illiterate persecution of the Theater
Meyerhold, workers, Red Army soldiers and proletarian students consider this
Theater to its own, This was especially clearly revealed at the anniversary celebration of V.E.
Meyerhold (25 years of work in the theater) 2L\U at the Bolshoi Theater. Honoring wear-
It was completely unusual for this kind of celebration. From delegations and
greetings (there were over 100 of them), a huge part were party ones,
professional, Soviet, workers, Red Army and student organizations;
There were no academic theatres. The most solemn moment was
performance of the Red Army, represented by a parade on stage to the sounds of
"Internationale" of a combined company of 4 types of weapons, the commander of which handed over
Comrade Meyerhold the title of honorary Red Army soldier of the Moscow garrison, and his
The theater has a red banner. Council of People's Commissars awarded V.E. Meyerhold the title of People's
Artist of the Republic, and soon after the anniversary the All-Russian and Provincial Congresses
Vserabis elected him a member of the Central Committee and the Board of Mosgubrabis. Feedback from the anniversary
me ONo. 8 CHRONICLE. 279

is also organized by a group of Moscow students “Society of Friends of the Theater
Meyerhold." The anniversary immediately revealed the sympathies of the working class for the first communism.
nist of the Theater, Comrade Meyerhold, and the Theater headed by him. This, of course, gives
New strength for all the workers of the Meyerhold Workshop. And there is a lot of work ahead.

At the end of May, a significant part of the Workshop left for the south of the USSR. In Kharkov,
Kyiv, Rostov n/D., Tiflis, Baku and intermediate cities are shown all
three plays in the Theater’s repertoire, with “Earth” at the center of the trip
Stand on end,” which gives the whole trip an agitational character. After returning this part
work on “Forest” will continue in Moscow (in commemoration of the anniversary
Ley Ostrovsky) and will begin over Merimee’s “Jacquerie”, which will go
processed by S. M. Tretyakov. In parallel with this, training sessions will be held on new
voy program developed by Comrade Meyerhold and a group of students. This program
is an exceptional curriculum in the history of theater education,
proceeding from strictly Marxist premises, based on exact scientific
data and taking into account all the practical needs of the new theater. All academic
technical work will take place in inextricable connection with production; this way
So, the first theatrical factory teacher is created, moreover, of an advanced type, giving
highly qualified workers. Scientific and Artistic Section of the State
of the National Academic Council, in view of V. E. Meyerhold’s refusal to do any work
in GITIS in the presence of an illiterate and anti-mark approved for the latter
system program finally recognized the need to present the Workshop
Meyerhold's law of a state limited liability company. Will this be decided?
The idea has been implemented—the future will show; There is, however, experience in this area:
a year ago, the same Scientific and Artistic Section of the GUS recognized the need
the possibility of supplying the Meyerhold Theater with state subsidies, but since the authorities
do not act very quickly, especially when it comes to half-support of the revolutionaryn-
art, there is still no talk of any subsidies. Coming in the fall
also the convening of the 2nd Conference of instructors of the Meyerhold Workshop, which
will take a detailed account of all the experience of working among the masses and develop detailed
work plans.

Let me sum it up. Theater-Workshop Sun. Meyerhold is exceptional
an organization that combines production, academic and educational
practical and instructive work. The forms of theatrical action developed by her
are fundamental in the development of modern theater, since all theatrical
organizations that consider themselves to be part of the left front stand in organic connection
with the works of Sun. Meyerhold, (if some of them distort the line of these ra-
bot wine than Meyerhold). The Meyerhold Theater paves the way for maximum
use of the theater in the direction of the implementation of general revolutionary construction
vital tasks of the working class, such as making theater an instrument of communist propaganda
tion, and moving towards the merger of theater with life, i.e. to the transformation of theatrical me-
methods in methods of organizing social dynamics. The tasks of the Theater Vs. Meyerholtz—
the complete implementation of the dictatorship of the proletariat in the theater, and this task, if taken
a firm line ensures his future. b

Alpha.

190
REVOLUTIONARY ART OF THE WEST.

(From a conversation with members of the Comintern).
Greece.

In Athens and Thessaloniki, under the organizations of the Communist Party there is
There are drama clubs. In Athens, their main composition is members of the youth and
women's organizations; they stage Greek and translated plays. Thessaloniki circle,
consisting of workers, staged plays such as “Resurrection” by L. Tolstoy,
“Bad Shepherds” by Mirbo and plays by Greek authors. The authorities are persecuting in every possible way
these circles, which arouse great interest among the working masses, who
definitely need their own theater. The Communist Party released a collection
nickname of revolutionary poems “Red Sands”; most of the authors are Greek
Chinese workers; It is interesting to note that almost half of the poems are dedicated to So-
Vetsky Russia.

Portugal.

Odone of the more prominent contemporary writers Manuel Ribeiro is an active
Communist Party worker. His novels “Cathedral” and “Desert” draw
the story of a socialist who fell under the influence of Catholicism. The last part of this
trilogy - “Renaissance”, not yet completed, gives the hero’s return to the revolution
tion work. After the first two books, which were criticized by party to-
comrades for the emerging religious trend, the last novel, undoubtedly,
straightens the revolutionary line. Leftist art began to penetrate into Portugal
Lyu: several books of leftist poets and magazines of new art have been published. There were
three exhibitions of futuristic painting; exists. organization of left-wing artists
cov. Artistic work among the working class is just beginning: the beginning
put, on the one hand, by anarchists, on the other, by radical intellectuals
group “New Harvest”. The first organized the “Free Theater” with the original
repertoire, the latter staged, among other things, Jaime Cortezao’s play “Adam and
Eva” with a rather unclear revolutionary tendency. Communist Party,
still very young, only now beginning to put cult work on the order of the day.

Italy.

The puppet theater is popular among workers, and is
to a certain extent by the remainder of Sochea 4e!age. Traditional masks of this theater——
different for each province, and the conversation is conducted in the appropriate
dialects. In 1920, during the period of the occupation of factories by workers in Northern Italy,
Rin's puppet staff Gianduja acted as workers and
commented on the vicissitudes of the revolutionary movement. In workers' clubs often
Concerts are organized and plays are staged. Turin has three working theaters in the people's
houses, accommodating 1000-1500 people. In these theaters they play mainly
So, the actors are from the working class, among them there are also cinema and theater workers. Theater of the central work
why the houses were burned by the Nazis in 1922. The workers love the recitation of Italian and
translated revolutionary poems.
No. 8 CHRONICLE. 281

Yugo - Slavia.

At the head of the revolutionary. artstand communists etc. Augustus the Caesar and
Miroslav Krleza, who in 1919 were editors of a journal closed by the government
"Flame", which was the first major blow to bourgeois art
(Currently it is planned to recreate “The Flame”). The first of them is a poet
and publicist; the second is a poet, playwright, novelist and publicist. His plays are difficult
for production, due to the novelty of their form and concept. His main motive
plays—movement: “Kraljevo” gives a picture of the movement of the masses in the square; in
“Croatian Rhapsody” is a fast-moving train. His other dramas are Christopher
Columbus”, symbolizing Lenin, “Galicia”—agitation against war, “Gomoth”—
the fight against traitors to the revolution, social patriots. To revolutionary writers
refers to Dragisa Vasic, who gave a brilliant description of Albania - the place of exile
for political ones.

Türkiye.

Of the young Turkish poets, Comrade is of significant interest. Nazim,
currently a student at the Communist University of the Toilers of the East
in Moscow. His poems are extremely original in concept and are widely used
phonetics, in particular abstruse language. Short, punchy phrases

Iceland.

Recently a group of communist poets was organized, which set as its
the goal of using poetry in the struggle of the working class. Some of them are already
published a number of books. Themes are the life and struggle of the proletariat. They also translate foreign
strange revolutionary poets and are chosen from old poetic works
having revolutionary significance.

Latvian communists in America

have been carrying out cultural work since 1908. There are choirs, musical and dramatic
mugs. In big cities they stage their own performances. Plays are being staged
revolutionary in nature, things by Hauptmann, Galsworthy. Latvian workers pro-
show great interest in cultural work, which in the Latvian organization is
vita more than in any other organization of the American Communist
Czech Party.

Chile.

The Communist Party of Chile developed great artistic work,
considering it one of the most powerful means of propagandas. There are 6 workers in Chile
theaters staging revolutionary plays by the workers themselves. Many of these
plays written by local communist workers and published by the party publishing house
ism (The Party has its own friendliness along with the revolutionary plays of Spain
Chinese authors. Very often, workers' clubs organize holidays and evenings.
Choral singing is developed; music of their composers. A whole series of revolutionary
The plays are dedicated to Soviet Russia. The Communist Party owns 2 cinemas
matographs, which show films mostly on social
themes; there were several films from the Russian revolution. The Communist Party has a number of poets
and writers who came from a working environment. E

B. Vasiliev.

14 1
282 And about. No. 8

REPORT OF INFORMATION 0 GERMAN PROLETKULT.

The general organizational scheme is similar to the Russian one, but the organization of the work is significant.
significantly weaker, mainly due to lack of funds. There is no newspaper or magazine.
It is extremely rare for individual periodicals to be published, such as plays, bro-
Shura, etc. The center does not have its own theater. Studios available: fine arts
arts, music, theater, literature. There are no lost forces. B
Berlin has a proletarian theater (but not run by Proletkult), in which
performed by Proletkult studio members. The theater has been operating for two years. Preference is given
especially the plays of Toller and Upton Sinclair. The plays are very popular
success,

The only weak point is the poor acting of the artists and studio people. In most
In reality, this is not a proletarian audience. Something like seminarians. Before occupying
have studied theology, are of little intelligence and are not at all imbued with
letarian ideology. This leads us to assume that the Proletkult is not particularly
strictly in the class selection of organization members. However, now for this matter
writer-playwright and director Kay5sy, a seasoned communist, took over.

Currently, Proletkult is intensively engaged in uniting sports
workers' organizations. Almost all of them are now united by Proletkult.

The center offers courses on proletarian culture. In themis given to familiarize
with issues of proletarian culture and instructors are trained in separate
ny branches of work of Proletkult.

Kelny has so far attracted little scientific attention: and cultural forces of Germany
with proletarian ideology. Relationships © by the Party are also highly
undefined. The party has little interest in his work. The same attitude with
side of most labor organizations. *

V. Kolky.

THE BEGINNINGS OF PROLETNULT IN ENGLAND.
(From a letter to the Chairman of the Central Committee of the All-Russian Proletkult).

Dear comrade, I was extremely pleased to receive your letter.
and I thank you from the bottom of my heart for the literature you sent me, from which I am trying
translate something immediately.

For my part, I will send you a copy of the book by Eden and Tsedar Paul
"Proletkult" and likewise any other literature that may be of interest
fresh for you and other Russian comrades. :

The proletcult movement here has not yet been molded into any complete
form. There is no corresponding organization yet, but for a number of years
There is a strong movement here, grouped around the so-called
“Plebs League” and pursuing the goal of educating the masses in the proletarian-class spirit,
mainly through familiarization with economic history and eco- theory
nomic science. So far, however, no serious efforts have been made to
artistic or cultural organizations. ...(?) among the workers. PS

“Nevertheless, there are a number of comrades here who, I am sure, with
They will be very enthusiastic about collaborating in the creation of the Rona, believe me,
new proletarian organization. We, in London, have already held a meeting of these
comrades. I hope that we will soon be able to bring our aspirations to fruition.
specific organizational forms.

I can see the following paths to lay the foundation of our
work. First of all, it is necessary to popularize the revolutionary proletarians

No. 8 CHRONICLE. 283

Russian songs translated from Russian, German, French and other languages. Then
we need to turn to creating good banners for the localsbranches of trade unions
and other workers' organizations, providing them with appropriate revolutionary
slogans. Further, it seems to me advisable to organize in workers
clubs of cultural (?) groups, which during the winter months could stage
in various clubs small dramatic things, as well as the creation of singing
societies, etc. Along with this, it is necessary to win more space in the party
printing for proletarian poetry and graphics.

What do you think about all this? Give me all your instructions. relative
specifically one or another form of identifying our movement.

If you can tell me more precisely what is in the area of interest to us
will be made in Russia over the coming months, I, in turn, will make
I do my best to coordinate my efforts with yours here. From
everything that I tell you above, it will be clear to you that we are still in the embryonic
nal condition.

With friendly greetings
Tom Quelch.

CZECHO - SLOVAKIAN PROLETKULT.

The Czecho-Slovak Proletkult arose at the end of 1920-21. and was founded
as part of the Communist Party in Czechoslovakia.

Previously, there were only Pr-ta cells in some large organizations
tions of the Party, which were later liquidated when the Party was created
Proletkult. Now we have 17 provincial and 67 seats in the whole of Czechoslovakia.
new Proletkults, and the movement is growing all the time. Proletkult is organized at
centralistic principles. Its Chairman is jointly the Secretary of the Party
for cultural affairs. The Cultural Council was founded to resolve cultural issues.
A council that has only an advisory vote, but has a casting vote
Executive Committee of the Party. The weekly Proletkult is published. Czecho-Slovakian problem
Prospect: firstly, the Czech-Slovak Prospect is an organization for the development of proletarian
culture (?). And, secondly, the political and educational organization of the Party.

Within the Party, Proletkult has great autonomy, only the most important
All issues are resolved by the Executive Committee of the Party. Ideologically, Czecho-
Slovaksky Prospekt accepts ttheses and resolutions of the Russian Prospect, but adapted
adapts them to the conditions of the country,

The ideological program of Proletkult has not yet been worked out, but
because Czecho-Slovaksky Prospekt is a very young organization that does not have
such experience as the Russian Proletkult. In the field of views on artistic
The shape of the Avenue is closely connected with the young revolutionary art of Czechoslovakia.

The activity of the Czech-Slovak Avenue is very large. A series of lectures was organized
both in Prague and in the provinces, on the topics: proletarian culture, socialism and
culture, history of socialist culture, Russian Proletkult, etc. d.

The Provincial Avenue, the Communist University, was established in Prague. commu-
nistic University of Czechoslovakia. The avenue has 4 departments. 1st department—History
socialism, 2nd department—Scientific socialism, 3rd department—Communist faction,
4th department - Communist culture. The University's lecturers are the best
comrades, both intellectuals and workers; e.g.: Shmeral, Gais, Naiman, Gora,
Whiteauer et al.

Next year the University program will be further expanded, mainly
in a significant way in the field of proletarian culture. Czecho-Slovaksky Prospekt has its own

142,
284 ye, ai" No. 3

a publishing house that does its job very well. First issue of Czecho-
Slovaksky Prospect - a collection of revolutionary poems by Czecho-Slovak and foreign
strange proletarian poets.

In general, we can say that Czecho-Slovak Avenue, which is rapidly developing
emerges, becomes a powerful instrument of communism in Czechoslovakia and, at the same time,
honestly fulfills his duty in the field of creating proletarian culture.

K. Internsky.

Editor: Editorial Eolleya.
CONTENTS:

ry

FOREIGN EXPERIMENTS.

Vorovsky's last farewell, verse. .
S. Obradovic.— Hammerman, verse.

A. Bagaev. —Green House, verse. .

s - Twilight, verse. I
Alexandrovsky. - Good to go..., verse.
Kostenko.—Everyday, verse.

Moiseeva.—Children's story
. Dorogoichenko.—From the life of the poet, poem
 Molodtsov - Evening.—Dawn Day, story

INVENTION AND CRAFTMANSHIP.

Team.—A moment of ingenuity and mass.

Rocket.—Experience in theater work. .

A. Fevralsky.—Kino-Pravda. ..

CULTURAL ISSUES.

S. Zander. —Proletarian culture and proletarian revolution. .
SCIENCE.

Sizov.—Proletariat and science... ...a

I. Kan.—About the class. approach to the problem of scientific, ore organization

ART. °

rona

S. Tretyakov.—Art in revolution and revolution in art.

B. Arvatov. - Art and production.
S. Malnev.—Music in the light of economic materialism

CLASS STRUGGLE.
L. Geller.—Proletariat and fascism

19
24
32

45
56
62
67

89
103

SV:
117
132

141
CRITICISM.

V. Pletnev.—Ways of proletarian poetry
9. Beskin—On the theater fronts...
N. Chuzhan.—Literary notes

R. Ginzburg.—Accident or “line”
Whistle.—Self-criticism and self-bibliography

BIBLIOGRAPHY...
PROLETKULT

M... .
Cover—G. Vlutsis; brand—S. Senkina.

E I ER O o VET VR

N. Tarabukin.—In the world of painting....,.......

About m I PO M. Zhe

o K
M E O V O M I O T H S E e VM.
p M o Te eg 5th y

ba ro" ba and I

Page

151
170
181
195
200
204
PUBLICATIONS

ALL-RUSSIAN and LOCAL PROLETKULTS

for 1922-1923

|

5

3.

A. MAGAZINES.
. Horn. No. 6.
Horn. No. 7
B. POEMS.
Gildin - “Chimes of the Hammer”, (in Hebrew). (Rasirodacho).

4. “D. Moshinsky—“Primrose.”
Collection - “Tribune of Proletkult”.

5.

3 <>

tm
12.
13.
14.
15.

16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

P.
. Groshik - “Stories”. Book P-th.
A. Dorogoichenko—“Tovarit Varvara.” (Sold out).
M.

A. Koechetov-Volisky—“Lieutenant Ensign Konogorov.” (Rassirodano).
N. Lyashno—“On the River.” (Sold out).

A. Neverov—“New House.” (Sold out).

A.
N.
C

”

V. PROSE.
Arsky - “The Broom of the Revolution”. (Rassirodano).

Dosov and Viklog - “Friends-Warriors”. (Sold out).

Skachko - “Fellow Travelers”. (Sold out).
Stepnoy - “Stories”.

Bornik - “Two Nights”.

G. PLAYS.

Volkov - “Plays”. (Sold out).
. Pletnev - “The Avenger”, 2nd ed.
„._. —“Flengo”, 2nd ed. (Sold out).
‚ —“Shena”, 2nd ed.

Stronin - “Above Death”. (Sold out).
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.

33.

34.

35.

36

D. NOTES.

1. Collection - “Songs of the Revolution”, no.1st
22. Vasiliev-Buglay - “Songs of the Revolution”, vol. 2nd.

y „ —_ „In spring”.
# ‚ —“Iridescent flower”.

E. ON ISSUES OF PROLETARIAN CULTURE, THEATER,

LITERATURE and METHODOLOGY.

A. Bogdanov—“Gauca and the working class.”

F. Kalinin - “The Proletariat and Creativity.”

I ,. —_“Ideology of production.”

I b‚ —., About ideology“.

I. Kan - “Socialist production”. (Sold out).
A. Lunacharsky—“Culture in the capitalist era.”
V. Pletnev—“Workers’ Club.”

E. Preobrazhensky—“On the material basis of culture in social

istic society."

M. Smith—“World production in comparative figures and

diagrams."

V. Smyshlyaev - “Techniques for processing stage performances”, 2nd add.

ed., part 1 and 2. (Sold out).
I. Sokolov—“Manual on Physical Education.”
N. Tarabuvin—“Experience in the theory of fat painting.”

false payment in the city of the Republic and abroad.

Proletkult publications are sent by deBeg or to

To workers and party organizations, educational institutions -
discount.

Publication warehouse: Moscow, Vozdvizhenka, 16..