eo iiv mine, narrow 3

Horn

BOOK\“

PROLET-CULT
1920
tu yuki u

CH ZE:}
| / r and beletarians of all countries, unite!
[

``
s
;

ikayR y)

| State
PUBPIINA BIBPISTEKA

in Leningrad.

Book \/

y |
EDITION

MOSCOW PROLETKULT _

G

MOSCOW - 1920

:
` 7
and.

®
yya
UST. And Eya 3.

On Sparrow Hills.
Dedicated N. Poletaev.

Sparrow Hills in the evening fire...
In the sunset heat the grove sleeps...
The city is silent in the smoky horizon

Moves iron and granite.

Permanently powerful_Giant—Worker...
He is in purulent wounds and in fumes

Splits, creates, prepares days and nights

Great furrow for sowing...

The field beyond the river is burning... Spots
In the fog, scarlet hides the distance...

I hear a Russian song... But it’s incomprehensible
To me the songs of that humility and sadness...

The sun has set... In the dusk - not a sound...
Only somewhere a mountain spring is ringing
Yes, the many-eyed city is deaf

Moves iron and granite...

S. Obradovic.

BURN. No. 5

Way to go!..

Capital, give way!..
The proletarian is on his way...
You won't put your foot down again
On my steel chest...

In October I got it right
The hellish plan of your dreams—

Everything that was hypocritical
What is criminal, you did...

In a factory, market, in a pose

You collected drops of sweat ‘ )
And of them the people's will ^

Forged a centuries-old chain... |

You are majestic on the throne
Sat, creating the law,—
Called in his law
Honor you, the king...

In monastic attire
Under the guise of God, you m
Snuck in for the atrocities
Into the soul of the dark, poor...

I recognized you... Enough!..

You are not a king, not a god, but an enemy... No.
To live lightly and freely, , .
I hold the red flag in my hands... and

I recognized you... Way to go!..
The proletarian is on his way...
You won't put your foot down again
On my steel chest!..

N. Aframeev.

No. 5

NK

Mother.

Let the music fray your nerves,
The autumn blue will suffocate, -
Mothers burning souls
Today in gray ashes,

Mother!

Holy

Great,

Eternal.

I, the poet of fire barricades,

your son
And your sons' brother,

Born by you to sing
Just a bloody fight
I stand in front of you

On your knees.

I know how you are
You hate me
Curse me =

For being yoursand anthems
I kindled anger in battle,

Because the days are smoky
I hurt your love.

Mother!

From century to century

You sow love on earth
In order to again and again
Man

He trampled her under his boots.

“You’re lying,” I spewed,
You think it doesn't hurt me
Squeeze out blood

In the darkness

For flowers,

With shaking hands?!..

I'm just like you
I yearn for affection,

About tenderness...

My eyes are searching

Spring smiles,

Joy, sunshine,
Vastness...

Mother! `

But more terrible than all horrors,
No. 5

if you
Torture, suffering
For me,—
Your pain.

It's limitless

She is irrepressible

She is endless

And it stings my heart

Stronger than fire.

Your pain is my Cross.

And I can't

I don't want to

Throw him away

From your bloody shoulders,
Just like my songs
Just like my anger
Just as I thirst for battle...
Holy!

When your heart
A wounded bird

Beats in the blood, `I
Know to me too

To the poet of battles,

Fire barricades

Like no one else

It's hard...

It's hard! .
But again and again
Gritting my teeth in pain,
I sing and shout:

Let's fight!

Forward!

... That's how it should be

It's destined...

Let the music fray your nerves,
The autumn haze will suffocate, -,

Mothers burning souls
Today in gray ashes.

V. Alexandrovsky.

GOR

Wings.
Nikolai Popetaev.
*

Where the wastelands are with their mouths open
Factory sucks up the child,

He tasted happiness for the first time
And the bitterness of the first loss.

Painful eyes narrowed,
We looked at the low houses

How he walked in a black blouse
To the ravines where the darkness thickened.

Autumn puddles are cloudy,

Rainy October kneaded the mud,
But the weapon is firmly hidden

And those who carried away are faithful.

Not many people knew the password,
“What if... browning in the dark
Will put the daring one down on the spot

For the power of machines, for the power of machines.

And

Anxiety was creeping in like a snake...

- Is it an ambush? What then!.,

Gave a pleading look

Through a small window...
- You can’t see it!..

The open book was not read.
The needle couldn’t stay in my hand,
The heart sensed the victims of the shift

And, there will be victory for whom.

The clock struck eleven

The samovar has long ceased making noise...

Yes, she loved dearly

Both him and those who perished in the darkness.

The gaze froze on a familiar portrait,
“The rays slid across the lips... d
Perseverance and withsludge marks

Face and shoulders Wrestling.
8

we ori bw shim

SF RM.

Sh.

I asked to go to the ravines with him,—
After all, she is so strong...
He laughed: there will be days

And your hand will come in handy... ‹

And now... keep what you gave, -
Soon they will need...
They will sing with the lead of the city,
They will dress in black smoke.

VI:

More and more tense and deafening
Hatred boiled in my blood
Fight-scorched souls
Blessed the red shift.

The coming day choked yesterday,
The armored vehicles grumbled angrier.
Alarming fortress towers
Yellow pupils stared.

The outskirts were buzzing with hives

In the thick fogs of October
And the secrets grew and grew stronger
In the open mouth of the wasteland.

No.:

... It was happening.

Night and day

Stones and meat

The shells were exploding

Hundreds of small fragments...
Smoke filled my eyes...
...Forgot about him, -

In a whirlwind of lead dancing
Her wings grew...
- A rifle!..

Shoulder hurt
From strong recoils.
Closer, closer to the center...

_ Another house...

Coming soon...
Why is it hot in your chest?

Why is the earth red?..
...Fire licks the heart...

And there... in the gray sky...
Dawns... red... dawns...
th

No.:

Gaunt s.

UT.

‘She passed away these days—-

Lying among the corpses in the morgue...
And the lights came on in the city,
Stormy delights were intoxicating......

No one saw a smile.
Nothing said the name...
...I kissed my forehead while turning pale...
Everything floated away in gray smoke...

r
That's the first and last time...
The merger was not reciprocal...
With blue, calm eyes
The wrinkles disappeared unnoticeably.

UP.

The city wept with a funeral march
Coffin after coffin, wreaths after wreaths
Banners of Labor before the grave of the fallen
They fluttered their wings like birds

Gun shots cut through the darkness...
Tears fell into yellow clay...

Everything merged and went out in a cloud of smoke
The moment of rejoicing was postponed.

Only the strength in the chest grew and grew

And it was not blood that boiled, but lava

...He is still strong, he is still winged,
And calm in the bloody current.

". ` V. Alexandrovsky.

|

E E Char

RR:

G.

Spring. Mighty, kind sun. Bottomless, th-
blue no. Walks through the valley with warm breath
wind. He breathes tenderly into your face. We are going wide
Koi valley, crossed by a black strip of road.

The damp, settling snow rustles. Legs about
fall down; Water comes out of the tracks.

_ The earth breathes warmth, a new joy of life.

(She throws off the chains of winter and rejoices, sings,
A laugh is involuntarily born in my soul. Laugh
rejoice, join in the great creative
the work of nature. Absorb the invigorating aroma
mat of water, subtly sliding rays of light,
free impulses. in order to become powerful,
like waves, fast as a ray, free and gentle -
howl like the wind.

Somewhere water sings with a silver ringing sound.

- Listen - we stop and my fuck-
the lady listens sensitively,

—= Do you hear? The streams are singing. Bells.
Spring is born. When a person is born, then an-
the gels on the nebe ring silver bells
and one of the firs goes to the ground.

Opa listens and pure blossoms on her face
smile of joy. Taw my children smile.

I see that a bright feeling is growing in the hush
quality I love her, this little figurine ©
children's serious eggs. I love these whisperers
long strands of hair coming out of the fluff of the hat.
Eyes deep like the sky and clear like ER
her rib call...

She laughs joyfully and clearly. I laugh.

—- Your face is stupid, stupid now. By-
what is this?

“I love you,” I answer out of place.

The eyes will distort like crazy

_ “I love you” repeats ena-- “I love
you."

And I love the sun, I lead, spring, free
wind, blue sky... I love the world, its joy and...

And she laughs. I look her straight in the eyes.

Spring song.

But, you can't look in. a person's eyes are like that
how you look into clear water, where you can see
every pebble. It’s impossible, because ^-^ that it is necessary
their bottomless depth is unstoppable. In n01
you read the clear pages of the soul, you see every
ev movement, changeable, like a fast running
water. b

And in them I read the last word -
no speech.

We love each other. And good, bright sunshine
svotit for us.

Olya has never been so bright, never.

We walk along the road, holding hands and
we say laughing:

"I love you, I love you."

We sing these words, ©, with outstretched arms, we run

towards the distant sun.She runs to the side, swinging the flashlight
on the snow and looks into the laughing sky.

- Look, clouds. Light, easy." They're running"
hurrying up towards the sun. I want to come to us
there. As a child, in my sleep, I saw that I had
the wings were torn out. And she flew high, high,

sitting on a cloud. And our house, and the church, and everything ^
The village was so small. Now I'm already me®_

I see such SMOs, I want to be Mighty here on earth
to rejoice, as easy as my child-
OMI sem.”

—. We'll find her, I say.

- She is here, around us. People are as wise as

old men are as foolish as children. They're looking for joy
somewhere when she's so close. We don't care
look for her. We found love. In the light of the sun.
like a light cloud she flutters with her wings
yami. Zovst in distant distances, scabs of the soul for
begin to sound like a spring stream,

Bna breaks down and runs back. I'm catching up with.
She stopped and looked seriously. |

- Go smear, I want to love you alone.

And she runs away from me, I look at the flashing-
a figure in the distance, so small and weak
in this vast space.

A
4

<.

*

%9

No. 5:

th

and

Breathe freely, tauboko. Wee muscles on-
pouring like steel: Thoughts are uncontrollable, like...
ter, rushing through my head. Where to put this power?
earthly, oppressive. Give to the earth, which creates it
hands. Dissolve” in fuchkas that are eating away
evil enega. Throw on the shoulders of the rustling wind
through the forest. Intertwined with the rays of the sun, burning
kissing the ground with a kiss.

(eating is a misfortune when there is no way out for her...

In the distance, across the river, like a pile of unburned
The village clings to the ground with traps. There,
without a road, in an open field. Snow and water greedily
hug your legs, cling, want to hold
me. A hot wave of aimless courage of the fog-
nit brain. Like a wild ancestor, a primitive human
the catcher, forgetting the music of speech, shouted wildly
branches the joy of the earth. Here is the river. Ice from
walked from the shore. The water gurgles playfully and
nit, playing with small pieces of ice. As if dis-
says something brought from afar, such
venomous; in tune with the joy of heaven. People were bI
happy if you could listen and understand
nature's call. But they pressed me to the ground
hiding in miserable houses from the sun's rays
loety of life, insulting the earth with violence
the slavery of souls who have lost their bright distances.

I.

“Old woman, mistress, give me a horse,” I shout.
--- You’re stupid, why do you care about a horse?
—- I’ll go to the village.

- I won’t let you, you’ll drive me, I’m timid in the morning

’ @throwing the wet fur coat on the floor and, grabbing the st-
Ruhu, spinning her around the room in some kind of deck
dance,

“Ugh, you damned one,” the old woman swears,
Are you crazy, have you made up your mind? n

I bow to you, wide prestor,
And the waters, and the sun, and the furniture.

The sounds themselves ask from the freely breathing
breasts My heart is pounding somewhere, somewhere...
will be decided. :

“Something like a dream?” he says behind the pergerozhka.

“Nyanoi” answers with firm conviction
old woman

“It’s true, grandma, Iyan,” I shout back—

I was filled with joy, joy, and love. Noisy in

head You won't understand, you old one. It happened to you too
Yana in the spring, and gray hair freezing the memory of
Iroshaom.

“Look, he’s snatching it up,” grumbles the old woman—
Come on, drink a cold cup of tea, Samovar
I'll warm you up now. Have a drink, go to bed, and

nothing to excite. And then moonshine for the head, di
harmful. It will hurt in the morning.

Dear grandma. And stupid.

The rising rays of the sun are jumping along the walls. B
dust dances briskly. They softly draw on.
smoked walls are light, transparent, incomprehensible-‘
new pictures. The tall one dressed in a light haze
ridge behind the river: And it seems gigantic
hands clasped on the sleeping chest and joyfully
the earth smiling in a dream. On the slopes of the amazing
spruce trees crumbled into ore, sparkling in the sun,
play in the rays. The earth breathes powerfully, calmly
lifting a terrible weight on his chest
snow.

Great, sweet, bright...

Today you gave us a tiny one, like
this speck of dust in the rays of light, a particle of deep
love. She picked us up so weak before...
fight into your whirlpool. Inspired us with new strength.
And you laugh that we are overflowing with happiness,
gift tvolm. How children are playful, how children are serious
We carefully and wisely accept your gift and keep it
in her souls and mine, which became one soul.

The rays are fading and the sun is heading towards sunset.
Night, with the aroma of springmilitary will envelop us
with its dark radiant cover. Our love
God will light up like a bright star, there in the middle
bottomless expanses. There are many of them, shining stars.
These are the souls of those who love tenderly, clearly, deeply.

0, if you could gather together myriads of heavenly
new firefly lights. What a charming light
that illuminated the whole world. And the night would stop
be at night. And in wise silence we hear-
we would look for what we have forgotten and are looking for, what is in the world
close and clear and so far away.

And the night would turn into day, illuminated
the luminary of love, the rival of the sun.

Would you then know that wisdom and strength
and creativity is in that which is called love. .

\

The night caresses us with its dark breath.
Like a gentle mother stroking with her soft hand,
smiling with the twinkling stars.

“It’s far, far away, I tell her, to be.
maybe today great joy will be born. In blood
vi and suffering, in the pangs of motherhood will be born
child. Freedom is his name. There might be illuminated
flashes of lightning, there happiness is forged
people's lives. And in their death flowers grow.
They are red as blood. You will go there."

"Together with you."

"Yes."

“And if... -tol0s ©^ is interrupted,
s
12 THORNE: No. 5
“What if there is death there?” It's ringing. bell The rebel power of Duna E
She pronounces this terrible word and it flows in her eyes in a smooth, powerful stream. Vepishka str- *
Fear glows. Sti lit a strong, even fire. And they say
“Where love cannot lead to death. We are dreaming, nights without words, we hear each other and
Let's teach people to love the world, the world of peace. We know that our thoughts and thoughts are the same. Beam
with burning love. And we will live in them, they are the sun’s invisible thread, tying us together to be able
in us. This is the eternal wisdom of unity." transfer its enchanting light.
Far, far away and the bells are ringing. Tudy... }
This is the bell of life, far, far, through the heavy - 0, if you sat down, you would reap that the world is merciless,
Some topias of space are calling to you. stern, so full of love. -
It buzzes there with an alarm call and the echo would make you a great, creative listener.
so gentle calls him there. You would become wise and pure as life.
We areWe will carry our love on the crucible of the great - You would become clear as children's eyes,
such suffering, let us crawl into it there, among the darkness, and you would become a human being. No. 3% |
death. You yourself would become the most extreme lover, kah
We'll burn. We will be extinguished by the veteu... the sea. 3
The sun goes out to be born again. robov |
will not die, ‚ V. Pletnev |
|. }
m
yah
„E oh
\p
^ and
Lieutenant Ensign Konogorov.

b

Everything said that today was a holiday:
the brow flushed by the January frost did not frown

here is the sky; smiled more tenderly than the suns, generously

throwing its sparkling spray onto the dome
bell towers, And into the windows of houses, and Along the tips of the shgy-
kov returned © Sunday walk
training team.

The spectators were also more enthusiastic. "educational
nikov": an unpunished rogue-frost, unexpected
desperately and painfully grabbed by the ear, then one,
then another victim, but better encouraged the ku-
mandu, and “textbooks”, instead of angering-
rush at this tomboy, with even greater daring and

with diligence imprint important measures:

- Fuck-fuck.

- Fuck-fuck.

The slender cozon seemed to be happily singing,
but didn’t walk along the road.

One common, joyful and festive feeling
covered "textbooks". Soma their soul sang
and cheerfully threw Fzova’s waves into the frosty air
datekoy neena:

- Taras, bars, rastabars,

(tender whites fell out,

Gray hares ran out...

Burst into the dog playfully fluttering in the wind.
Valteya loud shout from the team leader:

- Sub-ensigns, lead the company to the barracks!

- I’m listening, your honor!

- Gentlemen officers, can we go home...
importance in his voice while continuing to fluff
ly, © eyes swollen with fat, older
staff captain,

Two officers separated from the smoothly moving

her teams and approached their boss,

- And you learned to walk well, Mr. Captain!

— looking admiringly at those undergoing “training”

‘

kov,” remarked the young man, blushing in his
Rose second lieutenant.

Yes! — somehow meopredezhemmo drawled
headquarters-kalitan.--Karandani, nodtyan-i-s!--
shouted ots malppam Thursday "eevekha, ivo vekh

the strength of the exhausted ones not to hit the dirt in front of
head

- Yours bLagorodiya, let’s break it down with 6 songs?
- flew up to the staff captain and, clicking the cable
bows, Lieutenant Ensign Kono-
gorov.

- You can with pennies!). Let's go, gentlemen! -—90-
Ratileya team leader in her assistant
kam and slowly headed into one of the alleys.

“Karpukhin, start!” Konogorov shouted.
towards the one that continued to jerk like a big
wind-up toy, team training.

Karpukhin, gallant, dashing non-commissioned officer

cer, former team member
“counted the leg”:

- Ah, two, three-and-and. At, two, three-and-and.—
And Zalem began in his flexible, ringing tenor:

“There was a birch tree underneath,”

A curly-haired woman stood in the field.

And suddenly, windy, silently marching
The team that had worked until then unanimously echoed:

- Lyu-yuli, lyuli. standaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah

Lyu-yuli, Lyuli stood.

Taras, bars, rastabars...

- Training team, humbly! - - unexpected =

eagerly, quietly

but covered goloez choir stentorian godos podprapor-.

Konogorov's box.

- Aim to the right!

The song broke off instantly, stuck in the throat, and
the heads of all the soldiers at the last command, as
alone, turned to the right, towards the mincing
with his short general legs:
gray-haired, yellow-haired, like his faded ones,
once red, aamnaey.

“Textbooks” “gave a leg” and with a
rum fixed his eyes on the small, frail,
a pale gray figure.

- He smiled freely and embarrassedly
the old man waved his little hand. —
Continuing"!

- At ease!.. Continue! - Calm,
Konogorov repeated in a familiar voice.

- There is no one to break a birch tree,

There is no one to care for the curly haired man.

great-

And again in chorus: to <
14 Rae

No. 5

——Ty-yuli, wring lyuli...

Ahead, at the turn of the street, among the chietet-
heh, as if the houses had just been washed, pe-
seemed blackened by her dirty torn-
a clumsy and gloomy hulk
barracks

“Stop sleeping!” shouted the ensign.

“Stop this idiot!” someone repeated like an echo.
in the column.

- Team-ah-ah, stop! At-two!

Two hundred bayonets, as one, flashed at
the sun, and the wound up toy immediately stopped
and froze in one place.

— Platoon, separate the team into platoons!—
administration of Konogorov.

- First platoon, to the right!
bad...

- Second platoon...

The support worker stood poised in the street, talking about something.
thinking, looked with an indifferent gaze at
disappearing behind the large barracks door
dy "textbooks"; and when the last ich disappeared
ra, woke up from his thoughts and decidedly
Veled headed for his team.

Labor day; according to the Sunday schedule -
niya, giving Pedagorovchik Konogorov for ‘today
finished

Right

P.

- 9-oh, how warm it is! - with a satisfied voice -
som said Konogorov, entering the office
training team, which served, at the same time, and
a bedroom for him and clerk Denisyuk,

- Promorzai, Mr. Lieutenant? - Tirokho
Denieyuk asked smiling.

- But it’s very, but it still got through
frost quite thoroughly!

- Allow me to enter, Mr. Lieutenant!
‘`further voice from behind someone’s slightly pretended
doors. | |

-- Please!

A stretched figure appeared in the doorway
one of the “textbooks” © by two soldiers
chicks. in hands.

- 06 brought! - the one who entered said:

—. Yadno! Put it here!

"Textbook" put the pot on a small
homemade table, which served at the same time
desk for a sub-ensign, and therefore the head
filled with various lists, notes and a book -
mi: dozens of brand new foreign charters and
five tattered issues of “Gymnasium on
home." |

- G. lieutenant officer, signed by the head of the corps
handy my resignation letter? —asking
"textbook".

- Signed!.. Take this badge - here
giving everyone! Take yours and give it to others!

- I’m listening! Do you allow me to come?

- Mi!

"Textbook", vac weather vane on well-oiled
hinge, quickly turning on his heels, on
froze for a moment in this burning sensation, and then, no-
naturally spanking with his soles, he came out of the can-
celaria, } ) }

Having become thoroughly hungry after almost
two-hour walk, Konogorov with pleasure
sucking in the pleasantly tickling nose and
appetite suppressant delicious smell good
stale meat cabbage soup and hot buckwheat
Kali. th

Habitswith a strong movement, unhooking the checker and
removing © yourself soaked in cold air
overcoat, Konogorov sat down at the table on which
Two grimy pots were smoking slightly.

“Well, Denisyuk,” Konogorov turned to the pi-
Saryu, let's have a snack!

Denieyuk silently took out a wooden shelf
a chewed spoon, bread and, cross-cut
stop, corner covered with cobwebs, sitting down at the table
and, looking at the pot of cabbage soup, he began to think. |
“Why don’t you eat?” asked Konogorov,
looking at the clerk and chewing with appetite
a piece of meat fished out of a kettle.

- Do you know, Mr. Lieutenant Officer, what kind of
there’s a little thing for dinner... uncertain and mysterious
Dennsyuk began, smiling. =

Konogorov looked questioningly at the clerk. _

—- Here without you, while you are with the team
while walking, my brother-in-law came to see me - from the trees”
neither arrived, but brought the parcel with him. Swie-
Winky eight pounds... fat, fat,
lard is flowing down your hands... knitting bagels
ku.,. Well, he brought other miscellaneous things as well. Yes, he knows.
what else did you grab?! Denisyuk slyly feels
rushed. - He brought moonshine hehe! X0-o-ro- —
shaya! I tried it a little... My own, village one! ,
Should I have a drink before I go?
Mr. lieutenant? Well, just for a drink, for the sake of
a holiday of Christ? g

- What are you saying, what are you saying, Denisyuk! God forbid, na-
The leader of the team recognizes both me and you under fire
will roll up | - Konogorov waved his hands in fear. _

- Yes, after all, a glass, only a glass:
- Without losing hope, the clerk did not lag behind.

—- That would be good, that would be good... It’s been a month and a half now
I haven't tried it in years... But only... |

- One at a time! -Taraleya convince De-
Nisyuk. - He won’t understand © alone; and there, in

5
.

{

No. 5

E. 15

if something happens, you can fall asleep, fortunately
Today is a free day... And the moonshine
what!.. Wow! I'll get it, Mr. Lieutenant! -— and
unimaginable Denieyuk, getting out from behind the table and pro-
looking earnestly at the ensign.

- Then Fadyunin should have been killed -
style!

- Well, we can have that too. Should I call?—=and wait-
giving an answer, the office snake-seducer
went to the door, looked outstepped into it and shouted;

- Orderly, call the second platoon commander

platoon! Tell me, Mr. sub-ensign demands!

Denieyuk, having given the order, approached in his
bed, stuck his head in her, started rummaging
in his “zeichhaus”, which he jokingly called
wait, little chest, with trepidation in your heart, finally,
took out from there a voluminous piece of pork willow" -
lard and a beer bottle.

- Ek, grace is good! - -® with pleasure
Denieuk shook his bottle, listening to
the turbulence of liquid in it,

“Did you call me?” asked in a casual tone.
forces Fadyunin, leisurely entering the office.

- Yes. Sit down, brother! Denisyuk wants us

‚ Today is the day to treat us to something for the holiday.
“Moonshine, Mr. Platoon Leader!” Eva revealed
surprise Denieuk.

- Well? Fadenin said incredulously,

feeling somewhere in the pit of my stomach that I had been drunk for a long time,

excited aching sucking— That would be it
great! Where did you get it, drop by drop?

- My brother-in-law brought it, And the door, Mr. sub-
The cabbage soup probably needs to be locked up, otherwise it’s getting awkward
Ciao, no

- That's right, that's right. Lock it up, Denieuk!

When precautions were taken
you, Deniyuk, with the air of a birthday boy, solemnly
poured moonshine into a glass.

“A lot, Denisyuk!” - warningly.
til Konogorov.

- Nothing, Mr. Lieutenant!

- What is there “a lot”?! Hey Denisyuk! drink,
so much to drink! responded Fa-
dunin.

All three
doniiikami,

“9-0 is good!” Denisyuk grunted.

“Great!” confirmed the platoon commander.

“N-yes-ah!” Konogorov mumbled, eating
drink with a fatty piece of lard— Well, te-
Now you can have some soup!

Konogorov and Denisyuk began to eat lunch, and
Fadyunin smacked his lips with relish. tongue, straightening
© temptingly white with its tearful sides -
mi zavuskoy.

glasses sparkled at the same time

—— 9-9-e! Yes, there is less pokhovna left here,

— having examined the bottle but the light, painful

Fadyunin remarked in a tone. “Why is there something like that?”
- Shall we let her out?

- Yes, of course, Mr. O De-
nisyuk and, looking at his nose after you
drink from the ensign's portion, spilled
distilled moonshine in glasses,

The platoon commander and clerk quickly emptiedor yours
glasses,

Konogorov silently followed their example and,

frowning, frowning.

Denisyuk started to eat porridge, and then,
shaking the goal, threw the spoon on the table,
the stool and the enova crawled into their “training house”. Pa-
rummaging through it with his hand, the clerk pulled out a second
half a bottle.

- To make a noise, so much to make a noise! That's right, Mr. vvoz-
new?—smiling sweetly at his second boyfriend,

zu. and solemnly raising the bottle up, pro-/

Izches Denieyuk.

- Right, by God, right! This is it...

mine!
Denisyuk gave orders for the owner, adding
pour moonshine into glasses and cut into appetizers.
Konogorov © with each new sip of moonshine

‘ki became gloomier and gloomier. His
the eyebrows moved angrily and wrinkled the forehead, and

pale cheeks twitched nervously,
tightly compressed lips.

- Why are you still silent, Fedor? -image-
Fadyunin was leaning toward him. “9k, I got you,” that
and dissolved the nurses! That's what I'm doing! Charge me
example! Oh, you canopy, my canopy. Seni...

Shigignii! Denisyuk shushed in fear. —
What are you, what are you, Mr. platoon?!
will hear!

- Damn her, this nomanha of yours 1
Right, Fedya?

—- Yes!.—0 with anger in the voice, finally,
said a noticeably tipsy Konogorov. - To you
you can have fun...

- Well, who doesn’t tell you to?

crooked

“Denieyuk,” without listening to Fadyunin, continued.

Meanwhile, Konogorov was stinging. - Denisyuk - disorganized -
howl. You, too, you say, are half-unstable
wow... @both are like bulls... healthy! And ma-
nya... they're taking me to the front these days...

—- Wow, what a fate!-—6 ‘sour trimases’
stozveleya Deniyuk.

- Fate!.. It’s unfair, not fate...
You see,” and Konogorov pointed to his chest,
the golden St. George's creet glimmered faintly
bow, - you see, first degree; that means three nx

-from me, and three times she sneaked up on me about-

damned witch with a scythe... She mumbled with her toothless

&

Womanda more>

16

G

bym. mouth... But every time it was still ke eo
holiday! Understand, Denisyuk, they pushed three times
me to go to those lands ‘where else’ no one else
but he came back!
- So who the hell made you climb on
rojon?—Fadyunia’s question,

- And in your opinion, I myself chased after these o-
trinkets or. Look at the sub-ensign -
kiz shoulder straps? Polietilea in your opinion? Ha ha ha!.
They forced, drove from the trenches: go, they say Ko-
Nogorov to the Austrians and cut their wires
local barriers! Your honor I say...
And he. to me: “What-0-07 Object?” and will go here
and he will go... Well, yes, it’s not his fault either, of course
- this very thing was often sent by those who needed it -
“It was necessary... And you go... Then-Gedrgiya
give! Hero, they say! Gers-oh-oh! Ha ha! Took
They threw him by the collar and into the thick of it, and the hero...
I barely carried my legs then... And then in the second and
sent for the third time. Go; they say it's not a secret
buddy, take it off... Fuck it... At the end
It was summer... Night... Darkness, even though your eyes-
if. In the sky, what can you never see at your position?
wow! The rain keeps falling like shrapnel, so
and pours. Thunder - dozens of heavy ones. twelve-
inch batteries rattling loudly. Rockets,
like German ones, no; yes with white arrows on n\-
Boo. They will sparkle dazzlingly on the liquid clay

‚ Dirt; & then Eneva everything falls into darkness

pitch black. God himself seemed to have declared
a merciful war for both us and the Austrians. Here, they say,
you, if you don’t know how to live in peace with each other!
Instead of loving your neighbor,
hurt him as much as you can, you squabble,
kah foolish animals... I walked... There are four of us
it was. I was appointed as the senior... I walked forward
nothing, they say, I’m not afraid, brave, they say, &
my heart wanted to jump out. fear.

There was a way to go, although it wasn’t far, ‘but it was local’

crossed: here and there bushes stuck out,
and look at it - you yourself will run into the enemy -

With a round bullet or on a bayonet. But I had to go...

Suddenly, it was as if the earth itself parted beneath
ME and I, with all my might, ventured into
Dig a hole. Four, almost simultaneous,
venleska of water, Bright shine of lightning. Wild be-
zoomies. Someone's terrified
eyes. Again the darkness is impenetrable. Hot,
shuddering. elastic throat... Fingers compressed
maThey are pouring more and more. Balisha Chuvetvo-

_ it was believed that the bull would have been strangled at that moment.

Bottom line: someone is tossing and turning all the time and occasionally

_ hurts’ pushes me. But somehow the fingers

weakened, terrible fatigue ran through everything.
my body, it became difficult to stand on my feet, my head

° ring the race. ten bells and I

m5

fell somewhere... And a wonderful thing! Konogorsl
immediately revived - I see my Vasyatka in ro-
jumping on his wife's lap in his shirt,
Laughs. He's reaching out to me with his little hands... 'Oooh,
silly | *I took him in my arms and, what-1‹
frightened, he ran with him; quickly quickly 10.
I ran, and I myself felt that someone was persecuting 3:
me - I think they want to take Vasyatka away, and I still
rather ‘I’m rushing forward. Suddenly ‘about something’ sing
I repent, I fall and... I see that it lies under me... 1
blue Austrian jacket, eyes straight at me
grown. And then I remembered everything... I was asleep
I fell unconscious, and then slept until the morning and
the corpse of the Austrian I strangled... E95 6
crazy, I instantly jumped on. legs. Sbku ©
two of ours lay motionless on me, clutching
Punch at each other's throats. With a clearing go-
lovoy crouched in the corner of the second avotriya, 1 tre
ty... the third stood at the edge of the pit and, looking in horror
looking at me, frozen in one place. Mom eye
locked © his eyes. I don't know how much

me. WE stood TAH until Got m..._ pog

in one jump. ‘found myself ‘scary at the top’
pits and rushed off to “their own” without looking back. I hear
I was crazy when gunshots crackled behind me, but no
paid attention to them and just barely
flew to our trenches... Only in his own land
ke, - lowering Godoe, after a pause
Konogorov continued, “I realized what I did.”

I... strangled... strangled a man...: the same
a weak-willed person, like me... I did
a murderer, but for what purpose, I don’t know... Until then

I only commanded such killers, and those
please... now with your own hands do
crime... Oooh!.: For this murder... 1
that mine was given George the first degree, & then,
for some reason - and a lieutenant... s

Konogorov fell silent. you

Quiet DenisyukIuganno Ustaviles
at him, & Fadyunin seemed to be dozing under Yeshu-
After all, Vonogorova, he just finished speaking”
woke up from his slumber. Rising heavily
from the bench, slowly, slightly swaying
legs and puffing, he wandered through the door, unlocking it.
left the office.

Konogorov, with a cracking hand, took the bottle
poured the remains of the moonshine into your ‘unfinished drinks’
almost drunk, a glass, and one wine howled
its contents down your throat.

= I should have been judged;.. To Siberia with
send... and to me - George...: heroism! Haha!'x
Why are you staring at me, Denisyuk? A? Il and
have you ever seen? And you won’t be terosm, not 4%
you say, ‘Denisyuk: You’re a non-combatant! Where}.
you?! Hoo-hoo-hoo! How funny you are! RAV
>

No. 5 ra o

RN 17.

funny!., Let's go, brother, shoot! 4?.. Don't you want?..
| Shui doesn’t care about the fuck Me: I’ll go alone!
| `Vonogorov, with difficulty, left the bench,
swayed and, the earth moved, but remained solid
gait, approached & hanger, Slowly, e.tru-
m" castigate those who do not obey
his legs, honeycombs to put on an overcoat,
Mr. sub-ensigns, where are you going?“ I woke up. De-
You'll get into court if you catch anyone's eye
I ‘officers will turn up!
e—Don’t they pour? putting on a shant-
Over his shoulder, Konogorov objected. -And they are
“88 Saints: they drink, they go... Hmm... By
©ud!.. For the murder of Tebriya they gave, and you are under
court! Officers will now be punished for drunkenness.
The shoulder straps are marked with an asterisk. Your honor
‘I’ll be there one day! Nod kuzyred zogda, `Devisyuk! Modchal,
when the boss talks to you! Well, well!
I'm confused! “I love you: Danneyukh} We
We're married, we'll live together... Together.
tNYY -— It’s nothing, ‘nothing. And the poet
zysh, kind old woman, ‘you, sweat

va: said:
Rukh va, where is the mug? Where ke kruzhea is the same.
Door: < slams shut. Kozitoro-

and
at

`Vonogorov, clenching his teeth with an unhurried pa-
Iirosu, leaned against one another. captive in the fence,
so as not to fall, and for a long time © seriously, concentrating

he was rummaging about with his contented expression. in-
y pockets. .
‘hires them; Be spoiled!--=under-
hell he 626% fucks his nose. Zdzh.. too
it's not.who...

vr

` VM. drop pav. lion, Bonogorov: su-

> in karma =
- Well, damn it! The RAO was taken away!
joked by Kodiioroh r raezheveya, -Greiiiikov
those
easy sun from the fence, but `all 28a V
‘Take precautions. 'behind' the leg
rivo: tuned in, Konogorov moved
walking along the sidewalk, barely
In the quickly descending winter twilight,
Her: &
zm you, you - < yourself. Veluh talk-
‘Konogorov Hall, I command everyone, it has become. I'm ve-
16620 tons for everyone. funny. In and out of that little little do-
Renault too. something >. Here you go. like zeiki
under 10b teases, & poP’rae pulled almost no
“Ears... Mouth up to the very ears, at least you-
hw prishche-e-ee,” purred, “Konogoroo, ›

quietly US manager, . a
No. Ev

at

E

[4 a PRE

for some time yet

> R.

The rest of the field catchers suddenly got stuck in, and
I'm burning; right in front of Konogorov with a bang
Something huge slipped out of the darkness.
gray bird and, strangely waving his shielded
With her brow, she froze in this position. at

- Holy, holy, holy, holy! - frightened - and then -
Konogorov murmured hastily; snuggling with everyone
body in the fence and staring at the blocking wall
the path of a dark ‘figure.

Little by little, Vonogorov’s face becomes joyful |
sunny day after the unexpectedly running -
thunderclouds; began to clear up, at first ‘uncer-
Renno, then a little more boldly, more and’ more
and, to the enya, it crawled into one, silted street - >

‚ kah butter pancake in a frying pan.

- Well, yes, of course, Izannikov! And a hand under.
holds the visor. Ivannikov?
- That's right, Mr. Lieutenant! = - fun from
- vacach "textbook". ,
- Why are you smiling, rascal? op
- No way, g, spoiling them.
The imp who suddenly came to his senses shouted at Bono-_
Gorov for some spring hidden inside, -

- and he: grinning, with the boss’s smile |

_ importance, poorly obeying his tongue,
burst out:

- Woo, Ivanizhov, tell me... who I... am! ©

- Do you deign to be a sergeant major
team mod ensign Bonogorov, Pddira-
whipper! b

- R-Right... Ivainikov... Right...:
walker!
and-= Glad to eat, G. podiranovschik!

 BodoGorov vepomnia about unsmoked and rr
that one into the pocket of a cigarette; - | g
xo fuck

"oh-jo-and

whose is it? | th

= There is no nickname, Mr. Lieutenant! I

- You don’t smoke, then?! Chadno!. This is good:
E

what!.. And here I am, brother... OH

- G. Lieutenant Officer, the officer is coming! ›. s
| = are you Gzhe?.. A-a-a!... He has fire too
wow!

Va
But tropuzru. moved earthly. ugly

This one is two-headed and four-legged. figure.

Poerelino G of one ` head. heaven nope
speck, 5.

Only Zorky, who is sweating. no.
the Czech eye of the “textbook” in the obve-
through the narrow window - an extraordinary four-legged creature could
recognize the officer, the officer who served as the deputy. b
hand © lady. h
When the officer catches up: oh
Vonogoryov whispered the saving grace from his hands.
a long fence; deprived. anchors, fast
_ dupulya eat eee steam then"

^G No.

18

E Eee

No. 5

“Your... honor... Allow me...” bite
rip! - taking a cigarette out of his pocket and piling up
sculpted with the whole body onto the hands of the officer and his companions
prostrate.

“A-ah-ah!” a frightened voice cut through the silence.
a woman's squeal, and something round fell
onto the snow and rolled over it.

- Durrrrak! - resoundingly rolling through the pestilence -
to the air, an irritably rude male voice
elk

- Fool! - the echo echoed somewhere
inside Konogorov, with a slight movement of his hand
thrown back to the side.

Sub-ensign, as if flattened to the re-
brush the fence, motionlessly frozen in the resulting
im from the push position.

“I am a fool!.. I am a gentleman,” - Onogorov bkhva-
rubbed his hand over the side of his overcoat and felt
touching the silky St. George's flax
point, - “nervous degree!”...

Burning, sharp pain that started to go cold
the seam of the heart from the insult received
Vonogorova: Maybe tomorrow's officer,
officer © combat distinctions, & not like that, kaz
this cut-out boy who called Memz...
He... I'm a fool!.. I...”,

Habitual, but heavy with hops movement?
the hand, the ominous shine of the soaring nose
officer of the blade, a wild, shrill “A-ay”,
frightened "G. Ensign!”, nervous ringing
checkers falling out of his hand before an unexpected
nom onpresiding over his path, - this is why
moose in some probably confused club
feelings and movements, in some instant” not-
lazy and meaningless dream. -

MA: ensign!-—6н0з& surfaced 18
twilight and sounded right next to Vono’s ear.
gorova trembling voice.

Vonogorov seemed to continue his dreams.
niya, half turns around and in a gray face,
like a buckwheat pancake © with two flying n’s”
him and stuck into the fleshy mass hot
coals, After some peering,
admits Ivannikova.

“Oh, is it you, Ivannikov?!” he muttered affectionately.
he’s even.-—-Come on, tell me your responsibilities
company duty officer!

- You are such a bastard! Your drunk face |-—
meanwhile the officer hisses furiously, shaking his under-
ensign over the sides of his greatcoat.

—- Well!.. Ivatnikov!

You want! - Cattle! Animal! Here you go, here you go!

Two cheek burns, one weled after another,
woke up peacefully and sweetly limping in his
Vaughn's drunkenness.

A terrible rage seized him. With re-
with a face twisted from anger and hepavist, with the ability to
guch6 with clenched fists, he rushed with his whole body
forward, but then for some reason it suddenly swayed under
nim earth; bykhgro, quickly began to spin,
throwing caycades of golden sparks; wrap it up
houses, a fence, an officer were flying in a mad whirlwind,
Ivannikov; then with a crushing roar the earth
collapsed under Konogorov’s feet, and oh
flew cloudily into black, it seemed. bottomless,
cold abyss...

GU.

Instead of the expected terrible fall on the
the rocky bottom of the abyss, Konogorov sensed
shaft, that again someone © is shaking forcefully. him for
11hH0,

“Again. you..." - remembering the officer and instantly

truly embittered, thought Tsonogorov and reluctantly, |

I forced my eyes open. |
‚Right 'in front of him on a small attached
a tiny kerosene stove on the wall table
light bulb, illuminating the dirty, shabby desolation
flaccid septum.

Konogorov < surprise and curiosity
looking around; Small dark closet"
Hastily cobbled together from simple, uncouth
dosov bunks. Grabbed by dirty hands, with
a window cut in the middle, a door.

Near Konogothere stood an officer in marching uniform
fusion, with a shank and a revolver and eo evert-
a lump of white paper in his hand.

Konogorov stared at him in bewilderment.

The officer was also curious for a while
regarded Konogorov as he usually
are looking at a rare thing, & because
would wake up, and take a serious, sad
new look, scanned to him in an official-cold manner
tone:

— I have to remove © you from interrogation about |

attempted murder of Second Lieutenant Hayuan.

I have been entrusted with conducting an investigation into this matter.
The officer's slashed lash is fierce,

with the expression of an eye on the sides of his greatcoat and

barking, holding hands, in a cheerful
Bathhouse on black ugly whitish background |

the letters “fool” floated in Konogorov’s mind.

Now everything was okay with him:

&40unarmed, insensible from the strong
drunkenness was sent to the regimental guardhouse,
now—inquiry, ‘further—<<ud, and then...<.

- And then - wh9t0? - Velukh said the end
his thoughts Konogorov.

“What’s “later”?” the officer didn’t understand. +

- What about the courts?

#

to

RR
".
>

\

b

b

No.

No. 5

t ZN 19

- How about 910? they'll take a look. They can have mercy
take into account mitigating circumstances, and
can... The highest penalty under military
for a long time—@immediately switching to the official
tone, the officer explained, “death penalty.”
res rassetrelyaie. . ‚

“Death penalty!” Ko- repeated apathetically
fires, and suddenly the attacking fog
laziness © wrapped his head around him.

- Your name, patronymic, surname... Title...

Ears, a small particle of consciousness and tongues
the person being asked was found in the guardhouse: the service
were doing something, working lightly and answering questions
some questions; & the rest of Kovogorov,
feeling, thinking, truly living Vo-
Pogorov was’ far from dim and uncomfortable
cameras.

A brightly burning lamp casts an even yellow
shaft light on a large oak table © two
dishes of deliciously smelling butter pies,
reddened on the crusts and with oozing
cut tender sides with currant jam; yours
the fatty rye cheese glistened and glossed when ©
those lamps; nbrought from the city - caramel in
beautiful paper and jellied walnuts;
homemade butter; still hot, just
why the lush rye taken out of the oven) -
wow, tickling your nose with the aroma of freshly baked
fresh bread; three glasses © smoking hot
tea, and proudly rises above all this -
` Thoroughly cleaned by Morphoy, solid copper
‹lamovar, shining with its yellow sides
purring cheerfully in a language that only he understands
the tongue of endless memory.

_ - And, after all, they didn’t notice, just like the holiday
He's coming! Konogorov said, ruffling his hand
` your grumbling unruly hair.

- What is there?! It's already the fifth day of Christmas
walks, but as if only yesterday at his mass
met, responded with a regretful sigh
Marfa.

- But it’s good after all... Vasyatka, no
former! - Konogorov tugged at the white-haired sleeve -
a three-year-old boy who was trying to
knit a silk belt intercepting it
a clean cotton shirt. - Better tea
drink! Look, it’s completely cooled down... Yes, good...—and
Konogorov © closed his eyes with pleasure for a moment
even. - Izbnk" is available, - the farm is also there,

| family, and that makes my soul somehow sweet. Pord-

you worry about this, you work up a sweat, and then,
look, the holiday has come, and it’s good for him
rest... It’s like you’re drinking honey... And nothing for you

| you don't need anything else... but

- Yay! Ah, dad! - grabbed his father’s hand
Vasyatka.— From. city, when you're late, golden straight
will you bring nick? You know, this one... round?.. Eh?

—= I’ll bring it, I’ll bring it!.. Yes... to the city too
somehow hit the heart when everything is at home -
then okay... And the people will tell you how hard it is -
sya, and at home it’s as if they’re bowing: Ah, moss,
Fyodor Kuzmich has come to us! "I love ego
I’m going to go to Artemov’s haberdashery...
Kaachiki, after all, are all familiar. Healthy
Vayuteya it is. “It’s been a while, they say, Fedor Kuz-
Mich, they didn’t come to see us!”  For a long time, - answer-
tea... Yes, there was no time for everything - all the housework...
But now I got ready, before the holiday for-
make cups... “With great pleasure-
eat,” they say, “Ready to serve,” andso that's all
with a smile. “I wish the Sitchik, or the Manchester man,
those? “To me, I say, for the wife... as a gift.”
roch... and"

- A good chintz, Fedya, you bought it!--
Martha carefully straightened out the folds of the new baby
dresses, with a warm feeling of joy looking at
waving intricate flowers on dark pink
‘field.’ Kiryukhina Tizutka Kav looked at him,
Yes, she gasped: “Wow,” she said, “good-o-
oh, and where are you,” he says, “get such a
huh? Fedya, I say, brought it for the holiday!..
so you pleased me with the update that I am
I know!

Something pleasantly dark and playful fluttered
inside Fedor, and he, sweetly stretching his
strong body, looked lovingly at the white-faced
with the laughing embers of his wife's eyes, with her fluff
long necks, full, protruding from the
cuffs with hands, and strong, mighty
feeling of leaning over the table, grabbing and
hold this young woman tightly in your arms
covered Konogorov...

“Have you been drinking?”.. Have you heard?.. Write it down!..
Are you sleeping? - the officer shouted loudly,
shaking Konogorov's shoulder. - Spread out,
that everything written here is correct, from your
elov!..

The lieutenant officer did not immediately understand what was coming from him.
require; did not remember that he, being
thoughts in his village, he spoke interrogating
his officer, and only, accepting from the official
cera pen © with a pen, as if in half, at the end
completely written pages, brought out clearly
in beautiful letters—Lieutenant Ensign F. Kono-
Gorov,

U.

Enogorov slept very little, but #6 was also awake
shaft at all; & was always in some Or
motnom sesteyanmi,

1

2".
20: OE.

No. 5

,

Dreams, one after another, crawled through
his family. dreaming consciousness.

I visited the village again for haymaking;
I also saw an officer who came to take pictures of him
interrogation from him; again told him something, & that—
didn't remember; I just noticed that it’s getting worse and worse

“he began to come to him, and then completely stopped
restal; I was in Vasyatioi in the forest and chopped wood;
went on the attack and received gborgia; saw a soldier
the one who brought him food and cold
tea; went to shoot the enemysecret and

‚ strangled the Austrian; saw a smiling face
‘’Miya Ivannikov.

Familiar all the paintings took place in front of Kono-
Gorov, and only once did a new one visit him,

an unprecedented dream.

two disappeared behind the squealing doors of the dark
noah closet long back was constantly silent -
wow. a soldier carrying away the remains of non-

finished cabbage soup, ungreased rusty netli
they fell sadly silent again, and into the dissolved
three people entered the door.

Despite the fact that it was dark all around,
Iogorov took a good look at them. One of them—
I saw the officer several times in the regiment. Angry
and constantly angry. But the ensign still
for some reason I didn’t crumble before him; the rest
two were ‘sradats, 6 submissive, indifferent
faces and heavily knocking on the wooden
Nomu half guns.
` — Get dressed... let’s go speak rudely
- the officer said, and added with sweet malice -

Wil: Today, would you like to report to the court?
for insulting the officer's rank and uniform!..

Vonogorov helplessly looked around the familiar
with our eyes in the dark, looking for something; & by
Tom, smiling sadly, slowly buttoned up
all the buttons that were on it were screwed, put on
hat and vest.

Listening to those unusual for him, in

confusion of footsteps pounding on the floor, Konogorov,

_ surrounded by a convoy, left the premises
guardhouses. I

It seemed to him that it was cold outside
and it was too light, although the sun was no longer there
‘visible in a clear, as if washed, sky. Pull-
taviayasya © east blue howling more and more
 showed a pale pink border sticking out from
behind distant houses and fences.

Konogorov ‹’hedgehog and narrowed his eyes, lowered
steve them onto the dirty, trampled money, and seeing
at the same time, from the corners of the eyes, what is being done
to these people,

Here is a young beautiful woman, in a red half-length
fur coat and a large canvas shawl, stopped

`

in the middle of the road and with fervent curiosity
I watched Konogorov,

Here is Ensign Rezchikov, a glorious fellow, with
Kids - with an open face, quickly walking along the highway

_ touaru and, as if wanting to get into Kono’s soul.

gorova, * greedlooks at him,
which leads one of the convoys into shock
nykh. Respectful servant, after some
hesitation, hesitantly pulls the right rube towards
visor g.

“9th, soldier too,” thought Konogorov— _
The guard will give the honor! Doesn't know the charter... I'll give it to you.
honor is remotely able - look, his hand is in his ear.
pulled it up!

- Mitik, look at the officer, the soldiers are...
blow! Konogorov saw behind him, and then
I saw two blushing people running ahead
a bunch of dirty-nosed toddlers with kids. uro-
looking with fear and surprise,
shivering into Vonogorov’s downcast eyes.

For a long time the dirty, iz’ez-
a married and trampled road; & then, instead
enega, huge painted slabs appeared,
the echoing mages of the walking.

"Officers' Meeting"; - Kono recognized immediately -
cows, without raising their heads,

Passed the doors, others, climbed, flattery-
That's it, the doors again. Parquet floor, with reflections
light bulbs,

“It must be dusk: the electricity has turned on-
li!” Vonogorov's head went blank.

Long black asphalt pbl and—enova._
yellow, clean and even. parquet. b 12

—- Stop! someone sharply shouted ‘at the very same place. b
Konogorov's ear, .

The parquet floor rippled and floated under the feet
obey this order, stopped, slightly
and gently swaying from side to side.

Konogorov got tired of looking at the same thing
same shiny quadrangle of parquet, and he.
slowly, unhurriedly, he moved further onto this |

quadrangular, from it - not the third, quadrangular
TY-thief are the same: shiny, smooth; on heel-_
ty... some kind of unpainted wooden leg
blocked his way. d 2

"What 9102." ; See

`Konogorov began to climb up the leg,

Board, clean, white. On in
rulers. .

"Scale!" — Bonogorov guessed, =

His gaze went over the edge of the board
immediately ran around. #

A sandy hillock, but far, far away
clearly visible. So far away that everything is Ka-

It looks very tiny. Snake river Ry-
s s

No. 5

BURN.

21

stretched across a green valley, withlying
for some reason, right on the water with a bridge.
t 3a by the river - a sparse black bush.
— The road © telegraph poles creeps from the mo-
stick to a larger crowded village, from the capital
shimmering around the white church in multi-colored
houses surrounded by a palisade.
“Relief plan for classes!” -immediately s0-
depicted Konogorov.
Ahead of the village, at the bend in the road, five

„t TRZa

stuck. Into the land of pishiaeks with colored heads.

kami, & a few behind them - two more of these
or Iktilki.

“Five sentinels,” he began to sort through
plan Konogorov.-—“We sent reconnaissance % se-
› so as not to run into hostility by surprise
° i. Our main forces are moving somewhere
"behind that distant forest on the shore of the lake...
° The right-flank sentinel stopped wrong
”” that’s right: he was carried forward, onto an open me-
_. hundred, when there are a lot of bushes a little to the right and behind,
where one could hide and, being ‘irreplaceable’
important, watch the enemy. -Old
the patrol was launched incorrectly: why should he stop? dor9-
° hey, when there is a ditch nearby, along which there is no
“You can get better at soda”...

Most of all Konogorov’s attention was attracted by
”_ lo telegraph line made from a series of
matches stuck into the ground and tied along the top
hushkas with one black thread, due 0b0z-
” start telegraphic. wire.
_ Konogorev even heard the honking of the departing
_. The pillars stretch into the distance.
_ _ Gu-u-u-u- how. annoying mosquito, pulling-
_ di they their endless monotonous penalty.
Ch But Konogorov even liked this drawn-out
humming, and it gently lulled his consciousness,
Sub-primordial Konogorov! - loudly in
sharply, drowning out the hum of telegraph poles,
someone shouted from the side of Konogorov, forcing
’ wow, even shudder from surprise and neg-
`other fright, as it happens when there is a strong
knocking during light sleep.

_ Vonogorov into one gray shapeless spot,
Vonogorov reluctantly and slowly turned his head
° to the side where the voice came from, which
who took his name.

Easily moving yum
_ STeviev,
" - Konogorov, reinforcing the elemental naivety, pa-

_ chalI was hanging out in these clutching ones for some reason>
_ stumps, VA

to >

r: lenny d-

c.

The relief plan instantly merged before my eyes,

Before the lifeless gaze of Koyasgorov 12...
a green lawn with five LowTums appeared,

Dark, single-color paints, coatings
them, began to clear up little by little and emerge
fall already in several, at first very pale,
& Then - in sharper multi-colored tones.

To the great amazement of Konogorov, the lawn
the stumps became lighter and lighter, prominent

poking more and more new ones, blurring to-

their pores, contours and colors, and, finally, Kono-
I saw mountains clearly in front of me, instead of a lawn
with stumps, a large table covered with green branch
nom, and behind him five officers.

In the middle, as Konogorov immediately recognized, 'si-
The regiment commander is in charge of you. Only now for the first time
during his entire ten-month stay in the regiment,
looked at it so well. his Vonogorov,

“How kind he must be!” I thought
he.—Look how he smiles when he speaks, and
the wrinkles on the forehead and under the eyes are so good;
& eyes are kind, kind... And the important one is
what a one!.. And orders on the chest: here is Anna,
here is Vladimir, and there are two more orders,
What could it be?.. To the right of the command-
dira is also a colonel. He only has one
Anna, but he himself is bald and vostronic.
And why is he plucking all his mustaches?! And the mustache is on top
white, with red nipples going down...
The same one... For some reason he’s standing there and reading something,
But you won’t understand what. It's buzzing somehow! And in rank ka-
com—you can’t tell: you can’t see the shoulder straps... Well, 8
this one to the left of the commander?.. Aha! Sub-
farrier What a wonderful guy, really! Small, se-

day-old, wrinkled all over and without orders with”

this... Such a big one, &`66з of orders!.. This one.
this captain must have a blue sky
him for some reason; & all of them are edged... A
maybe the unfortunate ensign, and not the captain

‘Tan: only “lost an asterisk from this treatment”—

and inside Konogorov something silently borrowed -
sounded like a cheerful childish laugh. - “No, it’s not right -
time! Looks like the captain: he’s calm
very, Snub-nosed, in a ponsne, and he himselfsy and xHu-
doy. And what is he reading all this time? Some kind of book...
And the finger is still slobbering, and also the officer! And this is also
what is it? The box is triangular - behind the glass is something...
it is written - and there is a golden eagle at the top...

A sharp blow from a chair falling to the floor |

x

attracted Konogorov's attention, and he lazily.

turning back slightly, curiously
looking at the audience staring at him;

sitting, lounging, on chairs, having melted away c).

all the aisles and I carefully make my way but
rows between chairs.
- Lifter Konogorov!
Vonogorov oglyazuleya,

\
22

Ve

No. 5

The commander himself spoke. Konogorov instinctively
Tyvyo stood tall and respectfully, barely understanding
words, listened.

—- Do you plead guilty to the
What did the secretary report just now?

Konogorov strained his strength to finish,
what they ask him. He even felt like
drops of cold sweat rolled down his forehead;
but like an old campaigner, he didn’t even move:1
not a single muscle and only intense gaze
blowing into the kind face of the commander.

- Do you recognize it? - not sshia, oga®ta, peresir) -
strength chairman.

- I admit! - confidently, with a joyful smile -
hastily agreed with the boss
com Konogorov and suddenly, he realized, but no-
Then he added with fear: “Wai?”  high blahs about
birth!

— The word is given to the victim—
Second Lieutenant Khakin!

Behind Konogorov the telegraph went dark.
new wires. He looked around and tollit about
in the first row among the audience of that officer who
who shook him by the sides of his greatcoat,

“Stupid!!!” instantly flashed in
Konogorov's brain, and he stretched out to the wind
I walk towards the officer, preparing to fall on him with everything
body and also shake him over the sides of his overcoat, but
some invisible force was holding him down, and no.

Nogorov seemed petrified in this, ready for
jump, position.
Now Konogorov suddenly became hateful

annoying buzzing of wires; but it continued
it is long, painfully long, occasionally interrupted
and fell silent only when this officer
sat down on his chair.

_And then clearly Konogorov heard the command’s voice
dira regiment. Onlyvoice, but words: words Vo-
I didn’t understand the Nogors.

- In view of the pure-hearted consciousness of the accused,
in the offense he committed, before his crime
details is out of this world... Your word, Mr. 0b-
vinitol |

Konogorov with extremely serious | and tense:
looking with a wifely face at everything that happened
came from the table. He ruled as the farthest
ny officer, whose shoulder straps could not be stripped
look, now I wrote something quickly, quickly;
sitting opposite him was a captain or ensign
The cheek, with a blue gap, stood, grabbed
with both hands on the table and swayed slightly forward
ed and back. We move along his lips, holding
the frowning frown and energetic
occasionally clenching one hand into a fist, Konogo-
ditch realizing that at that moment he was doing something
says, but what—Konogorov couldn’t dis-

take it and stopped even trying to take it apart,
just watched with wide open, almost silent
blinking eyes, now behind the commander, now behind him
rocking her officer.

But then he finished...

The commander stands up and says something, after which
he and two officers sitting on his sides. for-
take up the sheets of paper lying in front of them
magicians and go into the next room, ploto
closing the door behind you.

Behind Konogorov there was immediately a noise, a knocking sound,
buzzed.

Somehow slipped him a bench, and Konogorov and
I sat down on her with pleasure.

Konogorov listened to this noise for a long time,
behind him, staring with a lifeless gaze at
one point on the floor.

Suddenly it was completely clear and obvious to his ears
the word came clearly:

76%.

And immediately, as if Konogorov woke up. He says
I grabbed hold of this with dignity; wandering somewhere,
lost by him, and yet so necessary, yy
common 'word:

“Court... Yes, court! This is—<ud.. I am being judged.”

Like a wave-like spring this magical
the word is howling, which was vague and incomprehensible before
Since then Nonogorova,

And so clearly and clearly I remembered and understood
he is now what the court secretary said,
mandir, victim and accuser.

Like now, he hears that that officer, on
whom he intended to attack,customs for
strangle that this officer tried his best
to shield him from trouble. He said that he, Konogo-
ditch, was very drunk, did not understand what he was doing,

saber at him, not waving at him, but only torturing him _

pull it out. He, the victim, thought that everything
this story ends for the ensign with one
tench by arrest without trial; now,
Yes, things have taken such a serious turn, in view
complete insanity of the defendant at the moment
committing an offense, he forgives him from the bottom of his heart
`the offense he inflicted completely unconsciously.
and petitions the court for mitigation, and if
it is possible, then © complete liberation of the st tro-
the punishment due to the accused.

Konogorov also remembered the prosecutor’s speech, called
which made his offense a grave violation
military discipline and demanded for him.
the highest penalty is death
in order to save the healthy. the body of the glorious Archy o?
dissolving malignant ulcer, which is.
but in his opinion, and is sub-ensign E
Nogor.

grooves, =

\.
go 23

“And again Konogorov remembered the interruption
° from the strong inner excitement of the words of that official
- the tser, to which a few hours ago I went
° suddenly I felt I knew where the money was coming from -
simmering hatred: |
} - I... I ask the court... to soften the sub-
Punishment for the boy... Yes, I ask. vis, very pro-
Shu... & if possible, then... then forgive him completely.
I myself am ready to ask him for my right on my knees.
” swearing... I didn’t want his execution, which you are about to do.
you're preparing it in about an hour!.. Believe me, I'm the one who prepared it!
__ I’m suffering... maybe, but less than him!
° Konogorov recalled the half-lieutenant’s speech ^4-
at VIN,
) —- Believe me, I myself am now suffering... mo-
“Perhaps not to disturb him!..” repeated Konogorov
once again, lovingly pressing into every tear.
} `` “He said it right, I saw him tremble as
E was in a fever when he asked for mercy on me.
I felt that he was ready to cry, but
I... I wanted to throw myself at him, throw myself and...
_ to choke... Why?.. Why did I do this cold?
Because I ended up here! So onceve jo
: Is he to blame for this? Is he?.. No!. Not him, ah. her
Yo
G
E

I brought myself here... I, almost forty years old

_ man, tempted... and 'what?.. Moonshine!

oh Ha-ha-ha|.. Yes, moonshine!.. And here... for um

_ I’m here now... Or I could be an officer myself,
and if only I wished it. Might as well
“collide with nyanim on the street before losing s03-
th. knowledge of the lieutenant and for the fact that he tried
 swing your naked saber at me... for
_ This;.. give him up to be shot, & otherwise... otherwise and
_ you could be put on trial for connivance. Ta-
` Vova disciizina.. I had to choose—

Who should be judged? Is it the willow tree that is subject to
”_ to the ensign or to me, who had misfortune with him
\. meet?.. Yes, seduced... Seduced!
- Whom? Me, me!.. Supporter... sergeant-major
_ pain... gvorgievetsy gentleman!.. Ha-ha-ha!.. Me
“they valued me, they praised me, & I... t covered with dirt,
- ruined this good name... ‚father's good name...
oh I'm sorry, father!.. I know you SEE and understand

although you are far from the hunting world... You
“You have every right to despise and, probably, despise
< you despise me... Despise me, father: I am stained 180
name... Yours, which is due to your merits to the birth
_ Dina's sacrifice on the field deserved chess
to be counted among the heroes!.. And I... I... Father,
sorry! Prostg, father!

- Sobs, inconsolable, tearing at the heart, sobbing -
Kopogarov was suddenly shaken by uncontrollable tears.
‘but liie on shiiel, burning my cheeks. Bitter warriors
The commemorations were torn from the
‘hearts one piece after another. Then Monovfino
all the threads that connected his soul with

3

the rest of the world, and Vonogorov’s consciousness was delayed
zero with a black velvet curtain.

UT.

- Coming to his senses!..

- And he lay there for a long time without memory!

- It happens!.. From strong excitement!..

Konogorov felt very good.
Pleasant laziness spread through his heavy
my body. Like a calm, mind-altering music
ka, elastically stroked his nerves heard
them an excerpt of someone's conversation.

It seemed to him that they had already saidnear
him, and moreover, one of the voices was even familiar
com to him. ‘

"Who could it be?..
the voice is so familiar to me!

Strong curiosity took possession of Konogorov:

“We have to look: who is this? "—and
Konogorov, not without significant effort, slightly
opened his eyes slightly,

Wide, bearded, caring and at the same time
time is joyful" the face bent low over him
and looked at him

“Well, of course, it’s the doctor! How is it right away
didn’t guess?!” recognized the regimental doctor Konogo-
ditch.—<What a soul—this man is a doctor! Shni-
when.and will not say a bad word to anyone; a l-
will undertake to read—so, it seems, like his own father
is being done!”

- Ah-ah-ah! the beard was happy. — Well, under:
Ensign, how do you feel?

Konogorov smiled silently and was pleased
was to smile at this man.

- I see that I’m hurrying!.. That’s how it should be!.. Why?
be upset here? Such a sin could happen to anyone
happen... And I often drank... And
Like a drink, you don’t understand the problem; well, y
the sea is up to your knees... And don’t even think about the trial!
There's nothing wrong with that! 0 mortal
execution is out of the question! Well; will be sentenced;
for a year, for two / at most... And the judges are for
you, perhaps only the prosecutor... And ‘< command-
I said it myself. “All measures,” he says,
I want to persuade other judges in case
they will agree with me on the issue of mitigation
institute of punishment, “In general,” he says, “in my opinion
it still flies off easily, although according to the law
Zig even shot!.. You see! And you!
Even faint! For a whole eight hours! Now
It's almost time in the morning!.. Well, get up!
Get up!.,

Konogorov looked at the doctor trustingly.
He wanted to do something good for him.

I don’t remember... Ah

%
No. 5

aa" GRA

No. 5

neck, he slowly rose from the bench, on which
the swarm lay there all night.

Near the relief captivity stood a group of official
ov, $ curiosity staring at him
and then they burned out among themselves.

In places for the public compared” © nacha”
the scrap of the meeting has thinned out significantly, and even then,
then there were black empty stoolslya; and the faces of those sitting
Konogorov appeared deathly pale,
lymMI.

The room was quite cool; And. Kono-
Gorova even began to shiver a little: To soo-
to warm up, he stuffed the chill deep into his pockets
hands, regretting and with a melancholy gaze followed
who left him, the doctor,

“How nice he is!” I thought at that moment
Konogorov.

When the doctor's broad back disappeared behind
door, my soul suddenly felt sad and empty

Konogorov, As if they took away his last...
“Hope for something”

good, dunyous,
warm.
Konogorov slowly turned his longing gaze

on the windows, but there was a whiff of cold and inhospitability

‚from them to him. Two black holes like eye holes

inside the bare skull, stared at him and

° with such force they pulled into their bottomless depths

believe that Konogorov instinctively backed away
back m, trembling from an unpleasant sensation,
turned his gaze to another place; but in horror
I hurried to close my eyes: to his gaze, I would fall
written became, predetavilya from the scattered
in the middle of etol and ‘bolovshey on a green suvna

_magi large, shiny silver, glazed
` a coffin, and in his heads is the Fat Daybreaker ©
a dead eagle instead of eve...

- Please stand up; court ndeg!—suddenly interrupted
the ominous cry emitted a deathly silence” -

and r as if from underground a dull voice.
s

Notorov shuddered in surprise, quickly
0; Frightenedly he opened his eyes and, shaking with chills,
get out of your seat.

Three figures © with white heads in black
slowly squeeze through one after another
in-the door slowly flew from behind, terribly le-
chewing his table in the dead man's glazed coffin.

"Amongst; thicker than the other two,
figure; © trembling, emanating as if from the mo-
hyaeglosem; burst into tears over the deceased and, holding
yy white sheet of paper, please;

'.It is being discussed... to be demoted to
privates... winning orders... all rights" and
property and... the death penalty... through execution
lament... This verdict can be appealed...

“After all, the gon is already dead! ‘What a death!

“Is it execution?” Notwondering Kotogorov, looking at
#

'They'll take you out into the field' and shoot you|.. Lastly

papers scattered on the table seemed to him
sometimes with paper, sometimes taking the form of ‘otie-
of the deceased. —=“Well, yes! Died!.. After all, there
he's lying there!.. Maybe it's for me
No, 9t0 - 670!..

= What? Did you appeal?.. Why? no need!..
Oh, he's already dead!.. Oh, really! Late!.
If you want, shoot me!

“If you want, I say, shoot me!” "May 7
anyway, after all! Yes, it changed, they want me differently
shoot! Well, what 27! I lived, but now I won’t:
Well, yes he lived, and now here he is. I'll stop reaping! months
it's just 'ah!' y 2.5)

- What? Go, already? Like the euro! And me. would zi"
looked at him!.. And for the funeral I can’t say >
will he come?.. Well, okay, okay! Let’s go!” —

Konogorov, ‘supported by the arm of one
from the guards and barely holding on on weakened legs, |
hanging helplessly upside down, and
at the exit from the room. ,

“Yes, they want to shoot me!.. Re 16-
Surely, monya! "For what?.: And the officer wanted a shazi-
Whoa to kill!.. Dy!:. nc. cold Well, that's it.
They'll shoot you right away!"... °. you

It was empty and cold. on the Dine at Konogorov's,

Completely calm thoughts and reasoning
entered and incredibly modlon Tevlya past 603-
knowledge: ‘and then: without a trace, already: without touching anything
on its way, ditch in. this veno-absorbing
empty. t` .. >

` “There was a shadow in the RE as if it were just right.”
lived his own... And the commander of the roses-melting HER
ovo AND DOKTOU is also very good... They will
Live and die; ‘no, I won’t die - = my rabbi’:

they shoot. And this officer is good. Ravkaivaleya. .

And Idansto kav is skillfully crafted for’ fillings: no.
advert—here, and more, and 6elo..; In the village now
It would be nice to live. It will be necessary to “go there”:
When I finish singing, I’ll definitely go. Vasya
I'll take a look. Every goddamn scoundrel has grown up! c.
solo boy I’ll teach him, in gymnasium No.
I’ll give it back, I finished my studies myself, and he’s accepted by people
I'll tell you! If only God would bring me to live like this
longer... Oh/ yes where. Should I take a shower here?! After all, change it.
avornoe, ‘in a few’ days › shot:

k.

IA o

nWeNeigniumDonechek I’m walking with you, friends.
yaya! a thought popped in. } ze
“And tomorrow it’s cancer, a little about |
responded to a friend. and <#
The third one is soothingly prozadchveki less:
“You will be shot!” you 4
“How?” Hey
“La, just like that T. and Chi
Another guardhouse? How tired she is of me! Scho-.
I wish I could get out of it! I'm terribly tired, worse _

No. 5

death!.. Death? Yes, d% death! Coming Soon
and death! And here is my little room... Here are the bunks...:
I need to lie down, otherwise I’m tired today.
Eh-oh, it’s good to stretch out! It's as if
never fucked...
The forces have finally aged Konogorovz,
and he quickly became restless, unhealthy,
a nightmare.
A different, fanzastic, stormy life. sweat-
com picked him up and quickly carried him among the
the disgusting world of those flickering, like on a biran,
tsartin, special oddities, random spruces, cliffs
wow speech..
No. Konogorov managed to visit both the court and the village?
_ jealousy, and in the trenches, and in the guardhouse, and in the barracks
- Taras, bars, rastabars. -

›> FSnowballs fell white,

The gray hares ran out... to

<. I'll reach his ears from somewhere and now
lo oborvachov.

Cha sweep the sand, from the black gaping hole
quickly lifting the funeral table © lying on
°all white as hell, a dead man and three black
the people chattering absurdly behind him...
‚ 5 But Kologorov’s ideas. barajuu TD premises-
‚_ scheyutoya training commands
x Dirty, crying walls. Ugly 't/rch
® special posters. s |
^ The cramped and heavy housing halls, where
” is drawn about hundreds of weak-willed students, the hall,
"loathing in their own vapors,
its dampness, stench,
5. It's late. }
’_ Shoh the ceiling food blinks screwed chicken-
„^ stage lamp, weakly mastering the two floors of the
’ couples curled to the side. |

this

t < a with A

’ sting of the “textbook” and, respecting Konogorov
° with their fingers, laughing silently.”
- What? will you wash away? - ialintuleya sita, `Nyah
Ponogorov shouted so loudly that
he himself is afraid of his own voice; and zhuchebny-
and as if on someone’s command, instantly ‘enust-
at the seams elongated in direction E’ it
Hook.
about Konogorov more lovingly and sadly
>looked at leZhevitsimov series "textbooks", and it turns out
It turned out that these were’ and not “textbooks” at all, &
naked white dead.
Goosebumps ran all over Konogorov’s tree; &
when one of the dead men suddenly jumped up and
“He threw himself at Konogorov’s neck, he’s wild,” screamed
vul and ‘proenulea.
`Cold sweat covered his forehead and
` We slid the hand that was placed under the mod's head.

- .
yy

Grief: 25

On the burrows, side by side, in a row, de-”

Vonogorov, ‘raised his head slightly, looked around
moderately fearful, dull, I don’t understand anything -
with a deep glance.

Punch a narrow strip of liquid into the window

daytime ‘yuvet.

On the table there was a black pot with a cold dinner.

But Konogorov didn’t care about anything.

His heavy eyelids closed on their own 60-
battle, and after a minute they sent again
there was a healthy, painful and wheezing breathing
the hibernation of someone lost in sleep. lieutenant

And he sees black, black web; and on it b6-, -
In short, sharply distinct spots they dried out and
sun, crescent moon, stars, comets and
others unknown to him and never seen before
luminaries and stood motionless in the dead
sky. And the sky is so close overhead that all these
the luminaries seem large and dreamy.

Kopogorov looks at the heavenly ‘vision, and...
horror, wild, belly horror binds him to this
a picture of a dead non-combatant; and from the bottom 60163 ©
the incomparably shriveled soul rises in fearful ^_
a ghostly thought about the sign of the coming war = _
ranks of the world. o zn

Po. the wave of the mighty, mighty
will, this picture instantly disappears, and now
Gorov is already a borate, exhausted, every= o =
kundnyu ready to be absorbed by the bupguing, ›
seething beneath him, a merciless sea-
Chita. h

It's dark all around. The shore is nowhere in sight, -boo-
penny m9re, and only low, low; almost ka-
Konogorov's heads are crawling, frowning, oh
ominous black clouds.

Suddenly a strong weakness takes possession of Konogoro-'

%

“you, and he, helpless, before the victorious triumph—*

olichia, quickly goes to the bottom, ‘fascinated
full of greedy and greedy holdouts.”
in waves, oh

All gauit also goes deeper. Vonogorov.

“Here... lazy man!” - trembling, as if in a feverish
radka, from hohead and fear; thinkutg op.

Then consciousness becomes clouded with a gradual
with a falling thump, and Kovogorov ‘from some non-
expected shaking; Breathing heavily, he sighs.
Xia and opens her eyes, and

His thoughts became clear and distinct
high, calm, as if sea water 068°- <_
the hall was exhausted, tired from the strain -
work; brain. Oh

Now Konogorov is completely separated 6031 ^—
val, where they are, in Dl

Instead of pale lily rays, falling through the window
yellowish light burning in the corridor”, behind the door
a small light bulb. 34: Pe |

m

26

It was intensely quiet, as if all my life
dead all around,

“Night!” clearly flashed through Konogo’s head.
Rova.—“And what bad” dreams!.. Even falling asleep-
afraid to die; & I want to sleep so, so, I want!..
The eyes merge... Just don't see anything terrible...
child"...

Vonogorov turned over to the other side; long

could not lie down comfortably; pakopets, calmed down and began
< the pleasure that washed over him as he thought,
talk about yourself:
° “I don’t have much time left to live now, I won’t
tomorrow, so one of these days they will shoot me down. Pomilova-
I have nowhere to wait... They offered to give
a complaint against the verdict, but what's the point?.. Guilty, -
so shout no matter how much, & it will all be your fault!.. L
it’s a pity... after all, I haven’t seen life, really
cabbage soup, good; full life; and if there was anything,
then... just in passing, worse even teased")
me... Konogorov lived and Konogorov will not exist.
You are dust to dust turned to dust - it was even said
and in the holy scriptures... Born, mother cherished,
raised a son; then I began to realize that
is happening around you... Then learning - preparation
& future life... And now this future has come
life began to work, to work day after day,
in order to be able to live in contentment with
his family... For many years he worked as... ox, in-
growled... I felt that enough was enough, so my hands
Break the shit, you can rest a little. And ``on-
the past was already the same, the present, the happy one
life... Yes, it’s not destinedapparently there was some time to live
so, they declared war, & there... there, every time
what a life she's had. brutalized, twisted, tore’
and threw it... and finally threw it. here... in this
hole, in order...to soon completely put
Law on the life of Fedor Konogorev"...

Sobs came to my throat and made it difficult to
Breathe.

The tears welling up in my eyes were ready
pour in a stream onto the bare planks of the bunks, but Konogo-
ditch overcame this momentary weakness and, driving out
sad thoughts, just clenched his teeth tighter and
shrank more on his hard bed.

“It would be better to sleep!”

And the dream seemed to be just waiting for this, and now
he immediately teased him.’ He quickly threw
to impenetrable black, full of magical and
posterior transformations, magic bag,

And it seemed that as soon as I closed
eyes ‘and began to forget myself sweetly calm
sleep, someone shook Kopogorov violently and roughly
shoulder, rumbled in laughter just above my ear:
’ —. Get up! "Prepare to be executed! Here—"
Father will admonish you!

Consciousness instantly returned to Vonoporov.

No. 5

“Already?”—and someone seemed inhuman
cruelly snatched a piece of life from his heart
then meat

Quickly jumping to his feet, wandering madly.
Vonogorov glanced at those standing in front of him
Nim: some stranger, © stern face,
officer and a small, gray-haired regimental commander
puppy in black, © silver. braided
borders, stoles. In the hands of a priest, not
powerfully pressed to the chest, glistening in the light
someone brought a lamp, a small crimson
© metal seals the gospel and pain-
shoy, altar ©°ribbed and gilded _
cross,

- I don’t want to!!! No need!!! important person, . reprimand
Konogorov shouted and angrily pushed the drone away from him.”
smiling femininely in the twilight of the priest
ka.—Don’t!.. Get out!.. Get out!..—somehow to an Internet-
Konogorov shouted loudly.

Reel from. Zolchka sacred, quiet
he prayed, with introductory words, uncertainly
Konogorov was baptized with waves of his flame. .

- In that case, follow me! - cold -
but, the officer said dispassionately. |Four soldiers are against them in a tight and tight manner.
surrounded Vonogoror.

Vopogorov angrily pushing almost up to his ears
hat and © frowning face moved decisively.
zero to the door,

Balyushka was dumbfounded by embarrassment, giving
way to him. b y

It was getting light...

Swizz clouds, torn to shreds, the floor"
driven by an angrily howling whirlwind, rushed
across the sky

Under the blast of a strong wind, the skinny parts rotted.
the trees were gone and groaned under his icy breath -
VIeM. sowing

Konogorov, surrounded by a convoy, dejectedly
Woo and shiver from piercing to the very bones
cold; hurriedly walked along the crunchy plaintively
under his lapels the white one, who had fallen at night, had a fluffy
that tag.

Cheunevtiie © one side of a long rope-
at home, looked gloomily and untrustworthyly
With my pale eyes we walk busily =
moving a group of gloomy people, |

Kozogorov walked and rode an officer and glass
looked at his legs, flickering rismically
sewed to a white photo. ;

“And how mulreno everything is; the light is windy,” - du-
small Konogorov.—“The legs move, and the body moves
gavteya—chelorev raft; ‘a’ stopped stumbling like that
fall one after another, and the person stops,
Maybe by inertia it will take one more step... By
inertial... “Igertia oto—continuation of motion

ra
®. > .
|

Eeyore

and
what

No. 5

G

G.o ha

27

7

b

any body after...” Konogorev remembered
and even saw it printed and read by him
once upon a time in the “Gymnasium at Home” physical
con-—&Why do I need inertia? I'm not talking about that x9-
bodies... So, that means the man was moving, & then
stopped... Why did he move? But because
muscles are designed this way and blood moves through the body...
Circulates.. Arteries... Veins.:: Circulate-
Tsiya...>—remembered the scientific terms of Konogo-
ditch “Stop all this, and then... What
then?.. Then - die! How? Well, yes—©death,
death penalty... by shooting... First
demoted to the rank and file, and then...”

The wind whined pitifully, pitifully, and
Konogorov is sad in his soul.

Konogorov thrust his hands even deeper into his pockets.
us, pulled his neck into the collar and they were examinedwas on
to the parties. s

Vieredi, above the black patterned stripe immersed
married in the gloomy thoughts of the forest in the throes of childbirth -
It was a frosty cold morning.

And on the sides, on dark blue and indifferent

- the sky" the reddish tiny ones trembled timidly

>.

in

and,

at

yy

not =

sparkles.

The road along which Konogorov walked in convoy,
approached the forest. and soon a black and huge monster
the monster swallowed them into its uncomfortable and gloomy
ny corridor huddled together fenced
trees.

Vonogorov remembered a car he had seen somewhere
tinu: pressing on all sides with its walls
a semi-dark crypt, & on its sides there are rows of
Hundreds of mummies have been found, and among them is one in

* hysterical from fear little man, somehow fate-
We ended up in this graveyard of the dead.

Kono felt like he was in the same cemetery.
 gorov. : E

The darkness, hanging narrowly, is barely noticeable,
troninvoy, dead silence and blackened corpses
trees in white. and torn shrouds, without
silently stretching out their hands to the indifferent
it all reminded him of a terrible picture
crypt,

“Cemetery of the dead!” Kono thought sleepily
Gorov.— “In vain they cry out to the sky for simpler
NI. The sky is silent... And now I will replenish them
a sad meeting... When I, spoken by a bullet,

'mi, I rot, from my ashes the same one will rise,
Kav and they, dressed in funeral rags
corpse, © with outstretched arms... I will also
forever and in vain cry out for forgiveness. Bezzha-
flattering time, mocking my torment,
^ ‘he’ll break my arm, and I’ll be horrified by the help of God-
wait for new sufferings for new ones to grow,
so that it would be possible to stretch them again without-
to the silent Heaven, begging for mercy."

`

*

“

The picture unfolded in front of Konogorov
the forests seemed to him a continuation of those endless
nightmares that tormented and tormented her
last days.

The path began to narrow. It became ahead
noticeably lighter, and, finally, Konogorov and the convoy- ^
They came out into a small clearing.

- Stop!.. Prishai!.. - quietly, as if afraid
something, said the officer walking in front.

Konogorov and the convoy stopped, and the officialer
headed towards the middle of the clearing, where there was a dark
a bunch of people.

Some soldiers were moving around the Pole, Hearing...
There were fragmentary phrases.

To the side there were black spots on the snow composed in
GOATS RIFLES, {

Vonogorov idly watches with curiosity
I started to take a closer look at the wandering
Liane to people.

“9-99! Yes, this is not the third platoon, is it? !—
he remarked with surprise. “Well, yes!” This is true!
There's Shikalov, there's Kurtalin, there's Vereten.
nicks!., What are they doing here in such a paradise?
And no one reported anything to me about this... It is necessary
Mikutsky will be given a good scolding so that
without my knowledge, he didn’t see the platoon from the barracks!”...

From behind Konogorov whined sadly and groaned
wind, and then, getting stronger and stronger, 3a=
howled and immediately fell silent with a loud sob;

“Someone is crying! There must be peace because of this
nikam in shrouds! 0, Lord, Lord!”

- To the gun!.. b

“Ah-ah! Our second lieutenant Zvyagintsev commanded
no! Why is he giving the command so quietly today?
as if he was afraid of waking someone up!.. Well, of course,
doesn't want to wake up. After all, there are so many of them sleeping!
They sleep soundly and will never wake up; and scream
Still, it shouldn’t: it’s somehow not suitable!..

—- Stazovini-ee!.. Equal-ya-ya!.. Attention!..

“Well done! By God, well done! Oh, how nice
leveled off!.. Only ‘over there in the second section,
in the second rank someone after the command “emiu-

but “moving is not good!”...

Some officer came closer to Konogoro-
Woo Yi unfolded the paper and began to quietly read it.
Tal.

“What is he reading so quietly? No problem
heard! Well, don't! And let him read it -
no! So, something necessary!.. And this is what
yet?.. No coffin?.. Yes... coffin!.: And there are the graves-
la someone dug! Yes, yes - a grave! Who should
would it be? Someone has died!.. Or will he die?
No, he died! The big Mogis don’t dig!
A fresh grain is lying in this hole. They will abandon
loose earth. The grain sprouts, and
rez several lot will stand here new pe-

Ah

28 GORN. B

a bunker in a white, leaky shroud and gloomily
silently raise your hands to Heaven. Lord,
simpleand my sins!.. Look how many there are
© with raised hands. But apparently he doesn’t want to eat...
God their shawl! There must be so much for Kim
sins! Who are they and why are they from me he-
kids?.. I don’t remember their last name... Yes,
can you really remember the way?!.. I know, press three
your platoon, & I don’t remember the last name!.. This is it
good!.. Leaning against a tree... Good!..
And somehow my legs have weakened..., I’m a little tired...
Not feeling well... So after operations in ‘goesh-

› Tale, when the splinters melted out of my leg,

freedom, I also felt a little unwell... Well, yes it is
nothing will pass! God willing, it’s better! In jo-
I won’t even go to Vasyatka’s village!.. Why bother?
Komi? No, really! I stood there like that
would! I won't fall! Well, whatever.] And the eyes
don’t lock it up!>—and Kozogorov pushed away
head‘ from the bandage that was worn & it
soldiers face. - “No, don’t! At least I can sleep

’ hunting, but still don’t! I'll watch it again!

Maybe the dream will pass!.. Lord, forgive me
sins!.. They are calling somewhere! It must be to
early!.. How pitiful!.. To-0-he! Do-oh-he!
Do-oh-he! Tobklivo! It even hurts my heart!..

` Does it foresee any misfortune?!.. And on

position, before the attack, when I was almost th
They killed me, and I was aching inside!”

- Ah-ah-ah, father. You will forgive me
sinner that I offended you last time Zach!
Forgive me, for Christ's sake!.. I didn't think through everything
this... The evil one must have clouded my soul-
shu!.. 910? Kiss the cross?.. Lord Jesus
Christ!.. Father, where are you going?.. Father.

“Gone!.. And 3% that I wow last time tah
offended? It turns out I’m a bad person!”

- Your Honor, why the need 6
did you rip me off? Where can I find others like this?..

_ <I have one pair in my sunluk, yes—bad
wow, that hurts...

-_- Shooting-ah... let's go!.. in

“Aha, the second lieutenant is in command again! By whom
same. is this him? By the trees or what?! And still
they're calling! Do-oh-he! Do-0-0n! |

— Vzv0-0-0d|..

“What is this? Something is wrong with someone on the left flank!
Fell to the ground!.. What an eccentric.. At school and—
timid! -How will he go on the attack?! Eh:
dezh, molodezh!.. Well, why did he “pli” something
says? And his voice has changed something today
gizaet. Must be worried & about something!.

And how sad they call! Do-oh-he! Do-o-o

We walked

"L6-0-0..."

-.. Oh!

Al. Krechetov-Volzhekiy.
And

I V o Ao
x y

1

Peonardo da Vinny.
y: ‘and (To 400-letchio from: the day of death).

t

At the end of Western-European feudalism,
Italy has become a center of cross-border trade
of the routes that went from the West to the East m ob-
early. Convenient geographical location. and
favorable terms of exchange, fast behavior
to the formation of a tso-

logo of a number of urban centers, within its walls

uniting merchant and craft clavs,
Continuously developing its activities, Sho-
Saednye as necessary votulidi in ozhest) -
a serious struggle against feudalism. serfdom,
who had outlived their VC and only interfered with the long-term
the greatest progress of the economy, skillfully using
yours. c66 increasing her power, ns-
restrained by the distant imperial hand,
shchinas, by the 10th century inflicted the last lethal

th blow to the old system, having won back the full

independence, both from the knight and from the popes

wardship.

_ Barter economy triumphed here
victory. It also grew up in Italy and inevitably
nykh travelers of the city society: I thirst for

alive, sharp wealth inequality and

the sharp, cleaved struggle that ensues from here, for
which ended by the end of the 19th century in defeat
lower strata of the urban population. This one-
However, the matter did not end there. The dominant ones themselves
the classes immediately divided into ranks of fighters
Shchiheya with each other merchant families, stre-
mishikhey to seize political power in re-
Republican cities. This fight is over
by the 10th century Tiratai the largest cent-
Italy's leaders found themselves at the mercy of the financial masses
Nats, with the help of concessions and generous deals,
attracting the common people to their side and,
Thus, we overcome the less fortunate
‚ Soperpikov. This is how the Sferz was elevated in Milan, k)-
the roles of Robert and Ferdinand in Naples, Tonzago--
to Mantoux, Montofolte to Urbivo, Medici in
Florence; popes continued to rule in Rome>.
The larger half is X\. century (so-called "quattro-
then"), marked therefore in Italy the comparison

h`

bodily peace and prosperity, s0zta-
vaya in connection with © monetary pressure is possible
ity’ of the flourishing of a new culture.

However, the need for it was brewing
for a long time, Factors of this. need to briefly
This boiled down to the following:

The authoritarian-religious system is unquestionable
verbal obedience and renunciation of personal
Rushchiley's opinions. Exchange relations force
For every member of society to act independently
by, at your own peril and risk, to win back
right 'to' existence. A passionate
attentive to the individual person who has realized himself
powerful and free public figure
life in all its mental and physical
completeness; appeared on the stage of world history
a new enormous force—individualism.

One of the writers of that time, *) refuting
average view on. person, like 60-
the devil's court; writes, as if addressing from the
neither god to man: “Limited among astal-
For many creatures, nature is internally constrained by

AMI, ME. INSTALLED; YOU pour one, 8

restrained by any narrowness of boundaries, ‘by
to your arbitrariness delineate the boundaries of that nature,
into whose hands have I given you.”

And therefore no authorities, no
work! I. Lorenzo Valla, Roman by blood,
born in the city of popes, boldly raising
hand on them, publishes the famous “Isele-
statement about the fraudulent document, forged document”,
“the groping of Constantine”, 2) those’ we are impudent
the following characteristic lines: “I speak
here not only against the dead, but also against
alive, I speak not only against the individual
individuals, & against many, ‘not against private
persons only, & against persons occupying official
putol position. And against whom? No b-
166, no less. as against the supreme
priest." And further Bilhah remarks: “He

1) Pico della Uiraplola.

2) On the basis of this letter, the pope “harassed you”
dynamism over the whole world. |
gaRN. .

No. 5

a true speakerwho can speak red-
to speak, but does not have the courage to speak. Let's do it
‘have the courage to come forward with an accusation
against anyone who is worthy of accusation.”

Individualism, however, was the only
a product of the urban system

The widespread development of trade is not satisfactory
used older tools and older
MI markets; discoveries followed discoveries -
mi, inventions after inventions; technology would-
moved forward with swift steps. Inception
burning interest in nature, which for the first time
exploited © such an extraordinary
stability. At the same time, greedily perceives
all possible identifications of similar sweats were made, and
It seemed especially easy for Italy. "revived"
life” of Greco-Roman culture.

New mindsets, new events require-
Validate your formulation in terms of and 0bra-
zah; form and content of those who experienced their re-
mon had to be realized. Life you-
moved forward new science and new e-
art, & for this people were needed,
They appeared in the person of the “humanists”

The first intelligentsia in the then European Union
recruited from among intermediate slozz
among the bourgeoisie, not oppressed financially,
like the lower classes, not captured
trade competition, like the higher ones.  zah-
with the fullness of a child she rushed into all kinds of sciences
and arts, in all types of social activities
ness, improving not only your “spirit”,
but also the body. Technical specialization, in our
time turns a person into one of the whirlwinds
tics of world production was then
still at the first stages of its development. And
before the “humanistic” intelligentsia, me-
desiring to experience and understand everything, having discovered
wide scope of harmonic, revealing
Personalities. A brilliant line stretches in front of
we have versatile and gifted figures who
who were destined to lay down a cultural
foundation of a new Europe.

The diverse creativity of the “humanists” of Poland
was called the bliss-inclined patronage of Ti-
wounded Circles gathered in their courtyards,
Kali Academy. Technical improvements
citedThe garden is in a comfortable state. Italy
worked on the creation of new architecture. Ste-
We of the buildings were drunk by the painters. Plo-

1) The name comes from the Latin fishing
“Vtstapiz”, uto means “human” or related”
sa* to a person. The era that brought to the fore
needs of the human personality, could not help but name-
Xia “humanistic”. :

g # Ze, _
to CH OA $AI

The rooms were decorated with sculptures. Hundreds and thousands
manuscripts were published. In public
Passionate debates were held in places. Life ki-
sang in key. ,

Meanwhile, in the European economy, pasture
events fraught with consequences fell. Open
America and the spread of military technology
moved trade routes to the north and west.
The Dutch and Germans grew larger and richer.
ski cities. In France, the First
steps of the mighty Korozhev absolutism. One-

temporarily with this Italy and inevitably had to d

comprehend the fall of ve commanding position
in Europe. Already in recent decades
century, the gradual bankruptcy of Italy was looming.
Yang financial bourgeoisie. Having lost the opportunity
the essence of practical creativity, the latter ©
with the new Force of the little one on those exploited by it
classes, causing grumbling and discontent simply
people. She herself, drowning in inexhaustible
while cash flows, rushed to all possible
great pleasures, sometimes refined, sometimes rough
to the point of indecency. Thus, a layer is produced
aristocracy, already completely broken away
from the people.

Financial bankruptcy was followed by ban-
meekness of military defense. Collisions e tor-
government rivals, French kings,
finally end with the onslaught of foreign

troops. It was impossible to endure any more, even to the faces.

Savanarola :)-—Florence rebels in

the name of a return to the previous ideals of the Kingdom of God ^

on earth and asceticism. }

The intelligentsia had two options: either
go into dark and bitter denial Mikel-
Angelo 2), or indulge in indifferent light-
the thoughts of Raphael *). Both paths led
to loneliness, to subjectivism, 6 vital
resolved.\AND.

In the interval between the two described ema-
where the genius of Leonardo La Vinci took shape, and
“Quattrocento” and “Cinquecento” (XV [century) pa-
laid on him their indelible peculiarity
print.

Cheocardo was born in 1452, from quite a
wealthy Florentine notary Piero ha

Vianche and the peasant women of Caterina from Anchiano; only

offie^

Violedetvii was an illegitimate son

1) A monk who protested against injustice

society of that time, and then ‘burnt at the stake,
2) Florentine painter and sculptor.
8) Painter from Urbino,

$

to

I

_

MT, II

TI PS

}

th >

3
Sun

you: +

<o.-<i

you

‘the arrows that captured the city,

No. 5

re Ch.

centrally accepted into the notary's family, although fact-
he was technically raised from infancy by
tsa, who gave him a versatile and serious 0b-
development. Already as a child, Leonardo began to discover
live love in mathematics and, in particular,
in art, and in the end, his father gave it to Mr.
workshop of the famous Florentine painter
revealed his abilities with such force that soon
pietz and sculptor Verrocchio. There's Leonardo with
eclipsed the teacher, and by the age of 20 © small
finally stood on his own feet, Flora
tion, which was then experiencing a severe crisis, but
it suited the young artist’s taste; in
In 1472, he accepted the proposal of ‘milal-
ruler ILudovico Moro - move to
Milan, where the magnificent court flourished
life full of holidays and luxurious excesses
processions, to the organization of artistic performances
Eastern part of the South Mountains and was called up already
famous Leonardo. Here he writes
I commemorate the “Last Supper”, builds a memorial
Sforza Peak *), here we see him in the role,
musician, here he finds himself leading
Thelm of military-engineering buildings, In 1499
staying in Milan becomes impossible
Due to the invasion of foreigners; Leonardo returns-
going to Florence, where he was met with hostility
close, lives until 1502 with his favorite student
©his Mielze, created “St. Anna." In 1502
he leaves his native, but already alien city: in
as engineer Leonardo Postfalls on the service
bu to the ruler of Romagna, a bloodthirsty tyrant
Caesar Borgia. Only a year remains here in Vincia
and, not getting along with the tyrant, goes to the village.
Florence managed to calm down during this time, 3
for the artist it created the opportunity to fruitfully
creative activity. There is "Gioconda"
the city council hall is signed with “Battle
at Anghiari." But even now Leonardo does not tolerate
go" E dinner life; family unpleasant-
sti °) force him, indifferent to the field-
tic, to follow, to the horror of fellow citizens,
to the new overlords of Milal - the French,
in 1506 he went to his new fatherland. Odnakl

‚The events of the spring have moved in the opposite direction;

Milan falls again into the hands of Moro; Leonardo
in 1513 we flee to Rome, from where, forced
hostility of Leo X-th, as necessary

Moeti goes to Florence. And two years later

the arrest of Tudovico Moro returns the artist to
He loved Milan. The French are hot
with affection they treated the genital for this

r) This monument was soon destroyed by the screws

at

2) Dispute about inheritance,

master, and old Leonardo gets the opportunity
ity, thanks to a gift from King Francis
1st, move into the castle? Cloux, near Amboise (in
Touraine), where he died on May 2, 1519, before
the last day busy with scientific and artistic
tional problems.

A wonderful dancer and a dexterous gymnast, eo-

Nardo was distinguished by his extraordinary beauty and
magnificent physique. Despising fashion
he, as a contemporary reports, “was red
paasch, for the whole time up to the knees, although then they were in
fashion long clothes. To the middle of their chest -
a beautiful beard was falling, growing tall and well
combed." Without raising poverty, Leonardo loves
beat a well-provided life, beautiful
utensils, elegant furnishings, original
clothes, had an interestingly composed home-
Vyu library. Among his books we find,
along with © the best creations of Italian
fiction; also in Greek
y of the Roman classics. And in the notes delivered -
to us from Vinci, one can often dismiss the sti-
wishes in prose, humorous racestales,
riddles, jokes, sometimes a little poignant
(Leonardo was never a farie), but he
la graceful and tonvie.
Sometimes very, very poisonous, skeptical
the aristocrat-artist remained unchanged.
a witty debater and a deep thinker
lem; according to a historian who lived in his time
Vasari, “he was so charming in boseda,
that attracted human hearts." His
those who knew him well loved him; there is heat around him
were concentrated, and in Milan” Leonardo turned out to be the center
rum of the Academy organized thanks to him
Faculty of Sciences and Arts, subsequently receiving
Shay official recognition.

And yet he remained lonely, and the best
the creation of his mind was a true story. incomprehensible w forgotten
contemporaries. Apparently Leonardo felt
He felt this with special pain and bitterness; not-
for nothing he carries out his experiments so closedly,
for nothing, I was in no hurry to publish 6my manuscripts
si; not even the “Treatise on Painting”, before
who has passed down to our time, represents se-
battle is not the work of Leonardo himself, but a compilation
his students. x

Careful research, however. allow
now © full confidence to talk about’ 1eo-
but as a scientist.

This is the eater of the century of inventions and
practice, Leonardo da Vinci stands entirely on
based on strict experience: “The experience of a common mother
sciences and mekusetv” write axes. Here we are talking
Kamenchni, about the experience of feeling. “And zo veeh: what-
p mA

.

32

govN. B

"Popular opinions"—we find in his leadership
Jesus—<the most pious thing, of course, is faith in him-
Romanlia, sister of alchemy... Spirits who steal
053 Languages acting without organs, let-
rain and storm; people turned into cats
wolves and other animals... But in truth,
I mean, those who claim such things are those
they turned them into cattle.”

But practice alone will not create knowledge.
“He who clung to practice without knowing,
like a sailor without a rudder or compass: he
Never knows for sure where he is going. Always
Dojna's practice is to rely on good theo-
riya." And further: “Tedria—commander, proto-yutika—
soldiers,” for—we meet in other places,
—=“Netina—daughter of time,” and tsoria is a ‘com-
pass the steering wheel, this is an instrument of human creativity
stva. This is what the great scientist and artist believed,
shadowily anticipating the conquests of modern
of scientific and philosophical thought, |

Not every theory, however, in Le’s opinion, is

Nardo, withstands serious criticism; and up to

walking in his thoughts. lo logical con-
tsa, he. resolutely asserts: “Nothing
“human research” cannot” be called

with real knowledge, if it has not passed through ma-

thematic evidence." Here © denotes
This brightness affected the engineer and mechanic.
True, in accordance with the breadth of his scientific circle,
gozora, Leonardo. interested in language and

niya and others. “humanitarian” 1)” science-

mi; the center of gravity of his work, however, lies’ in
area of natural scientific thought. Here you will die-
sovyvazteya he is in front of us in all his gigantic form.
sky growth of a pioneer of mechanical physics, vier-
the highest substantiated theoretical principles, la
of which all our knowledge still belongs to
in the outside world. 1
“Movement is essential to all life.” —for
100 years before Descartes?) Vinci establishes, ——
and “Every action” is necessarily carried out
through movement." And long before the European Union

Peysky Phyzyaki, he formulates clearly and precisely

those three laws of mechanics, which only through

Two hundred years. became known to the world again under the name
em. Newtonian 3). 1. “Nothing, reached

feeling, “cannot move by itself”; 3.
“Every natural movement strives to maintain

1) “Humanitarian” are called spiders about human
chesky culture.

2) French mathematician and philosopher of the early HUP
century, x

$) Newton English mathematician and physicist who chewed
at the end of the 18th century and the beginning of the 18th century,

‚proving the possibility

You rt" RI

wound, your course along the initial ainia”; 3.
(On a specific example): “An object hits
air with such life force, © what air is successful
barks at the object." Finally, Leonardo is famous and
principles of energy conservation, this basic
the core of all modern science, only about
50 years ago, Robert Maillet realized
rum and Holmholcem. *). g
Almost no mathematical or natural
stron-scientific dietilina, in which Leo-_
Nardo-da-Vinci pe dah would have much n very ©y=
public In algebra he uses the first one.
letters and signs -- (pluri x
- (minus); in geometry the first one gives modern
variable definitions of surface and line; h
astronomy insists on the movement of the earth and

In a round shape, sending in 1473 (i.e.

Volumbu *) letter.
get to India
Western way; in the sphere of the same spiders, Lez-
Nardo considers the stars to be gigaiteki suns,
extremely. remote from us, in the region, geb-
logic he categorically rejects | ‚sko
the legend about the potol, pointing to the estetetvetio.
formation of the globe with its inhabitants
Physico-Florentine thinker. defines
sound is like the movement of waves, and gives mathematical
Chinese formulas for. action of the lever, block and
screw, and in biology for the first time resorts to the method

before the discovery of America)

“I will give comparative anatomy of man. and” the abdomen

nykh, and as a botanist, it will spoil you.” hiri-
tions of the arrangement of leaves on plants, _

You need to make a reservation in advance; everything is just
well-groomed provisions were by no means a fruit
free thinking of a vabinotic scientist.
Practice and experiment, °)—this is the funla- 2
ment on which Teonardo's ideas rest
Vinci. Passion for experimentation Doho-_
Dit Unogo to the extraordinary. He's experimenting -_
roams over the dead, people, cutting and studying
corpses,—and fell alive, inviting them ® seb |
to the apartment, then wowing, then scaring in advance the prize
prepared self-propelled lizards
with beetles I In No. 0, at the same time, imperceptibly sketched
screaming the most hilarious faces of simple-minded people
stay, 25M 4 z

This passion manifests itself even in facts,
significantly affected the experiment itself |
talor, was often accompanied by sad t’

}——Ш——шшш ^.

1) German physicists of the KhSU century. 4
7) The famous sailor who discovered America:
3) Exlerime is artificial, sometimes laboratory-
New experience, ‚ 4

at
No. 5:

bark, 33

cultural consequences. So gone
` for nae "Battle of Anghiari", unsuccessful 0еу-
sewn in some new way that was

The Last Supper almost died because
_ Seanardo decided to carry out the experiment and instead
° of the usual composition, I used oil paint.

Hundreds and thousands of plans constantly wandered in
Vinci's head. Then he develops ‘projects’
grandiose buildings of the central type, then
proposes to connect Florence © Pisa with
cash, then undertakes to raise the foundation of Faoren-
Tiyekogo Baptistery *). Much, however, is not
was about to come true: the financial circle
Zis was already overpowering Italy then. And only hands-
the drawings that have come down to us are still
‚ testify to. architectural marriages
Leonardo. ‘

But the latter not only designed: op
besides, sh, before veego, stroll. Built,
invented, built again and invented again. And
The same rich experience sparkles everywhere, ‘ss
the same versatile and flexible talent, who
the same resourceful wit.

Even in trifles, in little things, even then,
Kota, this is a table of great entertainments of the highest
pto society. —

Example line:

At one solemn wedding

courtyard of Tuloviko Moro, Leonardo organizes a co-
zussal procession, where he participates. given:
naya in the world, an entire planetary system. A
in 1515, under the votre of Milan Francis
On the 1st, according to Leonardo's drawings, a lion was built,
who takes a few steps and reveals
chest, gives the king a lily - the emblem of France
’ TsUZOVO State,
This. became reasonable, did not limit itself to activity
Vinci's ability as an engineer.
Op builds bridges, lays canals, erects
° The shepherds are talking. In the field of military equipment, they
‘invented: steam gun, explosive bombs,
_ long-range guns, specially=military m0-
’ sties, Naval defensive “And ‘offensive-
new buildings. In the field of technology,
\ national-industrial, the honor belongs to him
invention of underground ‘sewage pipes’
shi, turbines, wind plow; dredger-
Nyh Olik, AIR skewer, weaving steel-
ka, wheeled suls, drilling machines
* rejection of metals.

"Very damagedLeonardo's century of outrage
Fryappuz soldiers who died in 1499, Milam. and barbarian
the ignorance of the later “producers” of the picture.

2) A baptismal building is called a baptistery.
(literally: “baptismal place”). ;

|

invented by the author: so to a large extent **.

From other inventions of Leonardo da Vinci
I’ll also point out the life belt, diving
bell, double draft oven and chamber-enclosure
Ah,

Finally, in another area this amazing
a talented genius looked into the distant future.
I say © eternal, only now realized
man's desire to conquer and inflate
new element. Leonardo built a lot, built a lot
created a new one, thought a lot about the problem of mechanics
nic flight. He [n® managed to resolve
this task. However, the work here does not penetrate
for nothing: we got a parappot from Leonardo. ®)..

In addition, this purpose was specifically
naltisan “Treatise on the Flight of Birds”, with many
lenny drawings and drawings.

Once again mentally looking at the scientific background,
achievements of Leonardo, © deep sadness remains
you realize that more than half of
they were wasted.

Much, too much happened later,
under more suitable social conditions,
rediscover something already developed by a genius
Florentine. The hard work of several generations,
powerful tension of energies, long efforts
we thought all this was needed in order to
find when 10, someone already knows.

And only in my artistic creations
Teonarlo da Vinci © the very first steps of self-
worthwhile creativity, has remained to this day
laziness remains one of the most perfect teachers
lei of humanity.

1.

The era of initial accumulation is predetermined
represents a stage in the history of individualism
infancy,

Tltekm naively and letovi boldly approached the
dozhniyi-quattrocenturies & lives: surprised
looking closely at it, they discovered new ones"
hitherto known truths and sub-evative breach -
incorporated them into their work. Already NP social
the whole, once so authoritative, was captured
was the personality, and that external world to which
Roma needs itsty was Delivered R
unprecedented, unique, unique to her
relationships. To know this world, to display it
codification and Form, like a grateful hall-
cha for a new person! And in accordance with the requirements
knowledge of time, this task is beginning to be understood.”
becoming more and more individualistic. Less and less
and the less artist’ pays attention ‘to the s0che-
details of your Technical responsibilities from 0b-

2) Yarik. for sketching, oh

2) Self-closing device for l-_
battle heights to descend to the ground. }

34

Grief

No. 5

general plans, despite the fact that painting
has not yet separated from architecture, and
The doctor has not yet become a specialist. Any qualification
doubts whether it will be Donatello or Verok-
Kio, Ghiberti or. Mantegna, still remains
craftsman. So the practical requirements
the concepts continued to be clear to him
decorative fresco *) turned out to be predominant
giving form of application of the pictorial medium
messes, However, the further into the depths of the XNUMXth century,
the more you begin to feel the inconsistency
life between technology and having grown up with new
economic basis consciousness.  Neglecting
specifically for decorative purposes, artistic
achieve the so-called “realistic”
effects, building them on an optical illusion. Problem
we are perspectives on the one hand, ° problems
playback life © another, beginning
capture the artist, obscuring his ability
cial pictorial and technical ‘tasks.
Prada, the Quattrocento was destined to be
dad between two poles and along with
"continuous architectural" line and purely
- ornamental *°) opposition of one
different colors, we will meet. there's an extraordinary
overload with details, deliberate port-
zeal, ‘psychologism, etc. d., it. d. This is
there was a consequence of the constitutional \©more
exchange system.

Further stage in the development of Italian
art is a simultaneous result
the final isolation of the commercial bourgeoisie
zii, disintegration of workshops, differentiation 0b-
social work and innovations in painting
sing to the technique. That aristocracy of morals, about whichtorus I already had to mention, was in
essence and nothing more than further sharp
the growth of individualism. Personality. became conscious
make your goals different from social goals,

firmly locked into the lonely world of sub-
tive experiences, lost, therefore
Quattrocentist cheerfulness. — Not enough

this: the artist has already ceased to be involved -
com of collective production, rising from now on"
in exclusively exchange relations 6 strong-
we are the men of this world. As a representative
of this New Art appeared Leonardo-da-
Vinci. |

I said: peculiar. The fact is that Le-
Onarlo, being the most universal person
of its time, it would seem that it would have been false
escape the above-mentioned one-sidedness: ka-

1) Frescoes represent the works of wall paintings
pien special technique (a] Ggezso),

*) Orpampept means decoration (sometimes a pattern).

“

A new continuation of the terrible monastery.

it turns out, this genius, who embodied the engineer
ner, an architect, a life-saver, could become
creator of the most amazing and unique
with every kind of creature that would connect
maximum artistry with a practical purpose
the forest-like nature of the object, being such 0b-

at once, in the deepest expression of the principle of °con- |

constructiveness. It seemed that his entire personality was troubling
there's a lot of this.

It only seemed... Because that social-aesthetic
the constructive thing we just talked about
there was a speech and which still remains distant
kim ideas, was completely unthinkable in
society of contradictions that developed. Gar-
the individual's monastic development is paralyzed
was social disharmony, |

And Leonardo, painting the refectory domini-
Cana monastery "Santa Maria Della Gra-
tion" in Milan quite consciously allowed the same
severe violation of structural elements.
tov of the building, Completely neglecting the design
the architect for whom the wall was a refectory,
of course, the natural” restriction of projection
stva, Toonardo da Vinci crawled through with blows of his brush
washes this wall, creating with his “Secret Ve-
"cherey" illusion of perspective deepening:
Rightyes, individualism has been quattrocengo for a long time
volition to this. Vinci just finished what he started.”
such “perspectives” as the theorist Al-
Berti and practitioner Piero della Francesca *).
But in the very method of fulfilling the prospects,
Leonardo's task remains. incomparable and

|

: +
the only virtuous ones. His engineering sense ®
}

forced the artist to match the mentioned
breach < the size of the room, and the room
"The Last Supper" seems natural to the viewer

The practical inconsistency was covered -_
by that ingenious optical illusion that the witness
speaks about the Undoubted architectonic feeling

the spirit of Leonardo, who stood on the verge of two styles _

and managed to combine ‘them into one harmonic
whole?. The same “Last Supper” gives another lva
evidence of constructive feeling: all fi-
The paintings are arranged in one bas-relief
ny *) row, purely architectural in formality
their characteristics, & the contour of these figures is drawn
netea. continuous line, in other products
nyakh of the creator of “Monna FTiza”, interrupted as
we will see the play of colors and light and shade; continuous

$
the same line is inalienable, I recognize everyone

real subject., .

1) Life painter from Arepio (Unbria). |
2) Password is a sculptural surface decoration
(usually in architectural style) low cut.

PV tt" PRCHAR
>
there

GR

35

It was unthinkable to remain at this stage,
and in the person of Leonardo da Vinci, skywriting advanced
denies his own power claims,
painting begins to become self-sufficient; "Gioconda"
became one of the first secular “machines”
"*) paintings in the history of world art;
the fresco recedes into the background. Together with this
the entire aesthetic interest is transferred to the over-
a completely new plane; since artistic
the form has already separated from the real object
nogo, but has not yet abstracted herself “) to the full
self-sufficiency, to the point of “non-objectivity”, then new
the task begins to revolve around the so-called
you the most correspondence between the content, t.-z.
way and form, i.e. sensual recognition
kami (line, color, etc.). This task
couldn't sing quattroceptists: their creativity
ism was bifurcated by the desire for naturalism
and the impossibility of completely getting rid of decorative
rativity. In the person of L.B. Alberti they are only
theoretically realized this problem. Only uni-
the most versatile of the Renaissance men
in practice, to achieve in this area
desired perfection.

The same “Tai-
"Naya Supper." Christ has just spoken ka-
some words; apostles-in the unspeakable 01-
neniya; but to see this, you don't have to
you need to look at their faces. Apoetola group-
arranged in threes, in two masses of 066 hundred-
the walls of the picture, supported below by trestles,
who carry their own table. Line of the Apostles
contours are dynamic *) from beginning to end; then
soaring up, and falling down, she © both
sides in a heightened dramatism spengit to
center. like waves breaking about the dryness -
but the calm triangle of the savior’s body. Sun?
Kunchino, I’ll do the weight: “Tomorrow one will pre-

"will give me." The figure of Christ dominates the car-

Ri

m

*>,

Tina; on a light background of the middle window, marked
Nogo with a semicircular arch, it outlines its shape,
attracting, first of all, the attention of the visual
body At the same time, Christ transversely
separated from the apostles. for which the background is
at the dark walls of the room,

t Hrieta is a natural ‘transition to Mula. We
stasis we distinguish it. But why? Is his face
so evil? Does he take some
especially among others?

Not at all.

1) (tank painting is called painting on perenspoy
planes (papt., canvas); such pictures are painted on
machines - “easels”,

2) Still became abstract, “pure”.

3) Is in motion. .

Contemporary of Leonardo, artist Ghirlandaio
in the painting of the same name, he seated Judas in front of a hundred
scrap; in our time Ge used a slightly different
but also a purely “literary” device: he has
Judas is standing. Vinci acted differently. From above,
to the left the room is illuminated by light; they illuminated 19-
the fishing of the apostles standing next to Judas; by-
the latter leaned forward slightly, his face
him, remaining in the shadows, ominoushis stain
will reveal the traitor. “Literature” is avoided, life
the written medium triumphs,

With the same pictorial means it resolves =
there is another task: to emphasize the main thing in the car-
mud. For this purpose, a cart of de-
waist, all sorts of naturalistic moments and’ under
details, retained only the formally necessary

‘mine. Here © the new

aristocratic approach to art. Besides
this, the artist resorted to violating the so-called.
supposedly - “realism”: a table at which they sit
participants in the supper, reduced to incongruity
ity, because otherwise he would fill
a picture like this from Ghirlandaio.
At the same time, with his even horizontal
Vinci highlights the restless dynamics of apo-
many figures, at the same time balanced
amazing picture. The “image” turned into a con-
structural element of a work,

The principle of equality, the principle of veterinary
organic ‘generally plays a huge rye in
the work of Leonardo; - reflecting the harmonious balance
new versatility of av-
tora.

If we talk about mass equilibrium, t9
“Monna Lisa” will appear before our eyes,
moved up in the right r) part of the picture and
fastened on the left with a semipillar?) balcony;
if we touch on linear composition. tov 18-
just selected example of the “Secret War”
cherry" straight line of the table, restraining the impossibility
the late passion for human contours,
will confirm our position: if we turn to
light and shadow, then the best example will serve
for us “Malonna in the Rocks”. where on the left, at the top
deliberately expanded opening of the grotto ‘equal-
The accumulation of light glare in the
the bottom of the work.

It is worthy of special remark that
Vinci, if necessary, is ready to discard and even
distort naturalistic things by bringing um

1) 0t viewer.
2) Ptlyastra---kopna. or a table@ leaning against
wall,

3%
)

+

36

to the bewilderment of representatives of the vulgar. real
lism, The best proof of this is
"Madonna of the Rocks" The angel is given here not-
the laziest © naturalistic point of viewleniya
right hand gesture. The question now is, why?
he. <The “writer” will not answer you, but he is alive
will understand that otherwise it was impossible to bind the good-
catching the hand of the Madonna with the head of the Maadean - -
Christ. This is how form in art conquers
" And nature, which was recently a target for
images, becoming only edited (for
him. Actually, generally speaking, the plot is far away
is not indifferent to Vinci, and in this matter
the center of his creations. always appears
catcher Leonardo's landscape is only a background, only
environment. Is it either foggy, barely visible in
window from the distance of the “Last Supper”, or an unprecedented-cov-
the moat pattern of the hills and valleys of the Gioconda,
or the fantastic scenery of “Madonna v. ska-
lah." It’s the scenery—for here Lednardo is from
from beginning to end remaining the son of his “gu-
manic" time.

When you turn to formal composition
tions of Leonard's paintings; then still came
you believe that the line is dominant in them
roars. It is enough to remember the hymns for this
numerous critics to the famous triangle-
nickname, where both “Ginokonda” and Chriotos are inscribed.,
and centuries Anna, ‘and the central group of “Madonna in
rocks" - hymns to that very triangle, Ko-
who then, with the grace and ease of genius,
This eclecticism was utilized by young Raphael.
o Above I used the word “after all.” The point is
that the Leonard line is narrower. lost
its former clear, precise and’ loud
student 1); lost deliberately and inevitably,
‘as soon as Painting separated from architecture.
That's right, the colors haven't tangled yet, haven't burst
into adjacent areas: it is true that each body is yours
the views of the great Florentine has his own
its own 'color, and each color' field
delimited by a contour,—n0o... But is it really
genuine outline? r

However, let's listen to Leonardo himself.

_ “Pay attention,” he writes, “to the fact that
Shadows and light, without outlines or edges, pass
into each other, like smoke."

So; the word is said: light is laziness. Her complete
Leonardo was and remains a shonne master
ha Vinci.

Shall we take the gentle, subtle blitches`

on the Madonna's cloak (“Madonna of the Rocks”); 0b-

1) Emphasis, emphasis.

Nya.

ъ

No. 5

shall we pay our attention to the melting cloud,”
as if. some kind of thin blanket 06e-
Monna Lisa's sunken face and breasts; let's take a look
to "ev. Anna © family”, somewhere, then hiding
in the darkness, then illuminating the ‘forms, the artist creates
a miracle of light—creatures flutter before us everywhere
of high imagination and amazing technology
tsiki,\ After Leonardo it was possible with complete
the right to speak. that the inventions of the 19th century
in the field of oil paints were not wasted.
But after Leonardo it was no longer possible to see
give the same play of light and shadow with the same structure
guests of the composition. It was only available to him
to a sage who lived at the turn of two centuries.
A little more, and the stormy emotions *) of the first mi-
new stage in the history of mankind, the era of trade
gov capitalism, will create an unbalanced,
contrasting “baroque” *). Refusing the line, ha-
typical for “baroque”, foreshadows even more clearly
appears in the latest works of Leonardo
Vinci. I'll focus on his first autopor-
third What is the whole beard effect based on?
In light and shadow. How is this effect achieved? Ri-
sunshine. A line, sometimes broken, sometimes rounded,
naya, turned into a purely life-giving means,”
became an “impression”. One, two steps and we are
u. a pile of new aspirations,

Silence realizing the earthly, truly real.

We will repay the value of his creations."
the greatest of the great Italians 1). =

B. Auvatov,

1). Feelings (in the well-known sense - passions).

2) The movement in art that prevailed in the West.
Europe from the second half of X\Y1 to the end of XIV
century (the dawn falls on the first half of the XNUMXth I-go
the greatest representatives in painting Rembrandt in Hol-
Lapdia, Rubens in Flanders, Velasquez in Spain, etc.).

$) 0 Leonardo da Vanci cm; history guides
arts and culture in general (Werman, Vepuya, Fricken,
Cohn-Wiener. S. Reinach, R. Zaichik, Ruckhardt, Wölfflin,
Giatsintov, Ten, Bayeux, etc.), also special works;
SIMTSEV—Leonardo da Vinci (Kharkov 1900); OVAIL—
Leonardo da Vinci (1898; KLEMAN—Miquel-Angelo,
Leonardo da Vinci Raphael. (1863); FILIPPOV - Le-
Leonardo da Vinci (1892); K. HERZ - Leonardo da Viici
GOETHE—0About Leonardo da Vinci’s painting “The Last Supper”
(SPV 1858); STOLETOV - Leonardo da Vinci, as a natural
examiner (“Public Lectures and Speeches”, Moscow
1902); VOLYNSKY - Leonardo da Viichya (available
in two editions). See also “Northern Bulletin” 1898,
HI. and `Library for Reading` 1841 vol. 45 (excerpts
from Vasari’s book “Lives of Great Artists”)
I have a more complete bibliography. at Benoit) Sum up
0. Reinka. .

Popular literature about L. for V. in Russian
almost no longer exists (ie, the magazine “Flame” for 1919,
No. 6). ;

`

m
eo C

No. 5 G: OR 37

`Poetic speech of Peter' Oreshin.

Pyotr Oreshin cannot be called a poet, but is completely absent or replaced
“peasant” in that special sense, assonance (hidden softened rhyme) co-
as this is applicable, for example, to Yesenin, external or internal (in the middle of the line).

the first time, which is entirely in the power of the village, Much more successful are the experiments of Pyotr Oreshin
earth, rustic nature and rustic ditty style:

labor. On topics Peter. Oreshin is richer and oh, you let me recover
more varied: In style, in manner, he doesn’t want to rush,

more mental than Yesenan and sometimes, especially in his darling will soon come to me
village songs; trying to get closer I will love my darling.

to the genuine folk spirit (“Don’t make noise, 6%
hype-grass" "Why native huts", AAA
“In a round dance”, “Bride”, “Winter”, etc.) Ha- The choruses for the “talyanka” are also successful:
typical interweaving of personal experiences cocked the chickens,

with the life of nature and addressing it as Omitted, omitted.

special song technique; Someone's soul

“Don’t make noise, noise, grass, Ruined, ruined.”

Don't shed morning tears;
Didn't take off the skinny sweetheart
“From the shoulders of my little head.

But there is no bread,

We don't need

If only we could see
It was our gun

. r her osi

Don't make noise, spring is green,
Let me think, tell my fortune. EU
Let the dark night answer: Let's fire, kill,
Should I give birth?na not mother. Let's go to the priest

(Don't make noise, noise is grass) - Eh,
E Pray. holy father
The form “For our unfortunate end” is also common in folk poetry.
enhanced affirmation and praise through YOU:
question with denial: Dad, look at this: ‘ :
“Do I have black braids, no matter how—
And her turquoise blue eyes. Occupying a ‘mansion’
y (Bride). : . #95

Eat, daddy,

sturgeon,

Lucky native son:
We lived in barns
Now in marble palaces

However, very often Pyotr Oreshin
these deliberately taken stylistic devices
and individual phrases, like “strong thoughts”,
“Mother Earth” “valiant curls” and
etc. only create a false appearance of support
a lot of folk art; “permanent” and M Vienna
epithets are far from exhausted. colorful - There are stars in the windows,
great wealth of images. folk poetry, and there is no Light.
unexpectedly bold definitions there at all Tomorrow we will set out at first light,
not uncommon, AND

“Folk” song is alien and that distinctly- Or will ^
the sharpness and sharpness of the rhyme strike, like Pet-Golytbe,

Oreshin's ra in his folk songs; Especially Or in the field - on a pole

the division into ‘stanzas and system’ is unusual (Folk tale)
cross rhymes (through the line), the folk Poet found several correct forms
poetry is more characterized by paired rhymes of the rough ‘originality of primitiveness and artifice’
(when adjacent lines rhyme in pairs, the tone is of light, not always cheerful irony
usually numerous): and more often rhyme, in relation to tragic experiences!

38

gar

No. 5

and events - psychological and stylistic -
tical technique, which in folk art
this type became common under the influence of the baby
conscious elementary sense of proportion.

Petr Oreshin does not strive for flexibility and
diversity in constructive terms
neither in the sense of strophic construction, nor
in rhyming techniques*). E

Attempts to vary the form of the stanza,
deviate from the usual type of quatrain
and couplets occur, as an exception,
Sometimes he tries to write his so-called
“bodily” verse (Autumn, Hunger) But thin
natural basis for these const.hand-
tive modulations in each individual service
tea is difficult to catch.

In rhyming techniques, in the very disposition
rhymes, Pyotr Oreshin is also not afraid
strives for sophistication. Ordinary for him
cross (avav) and paired (aavv) rhymes,
and only occasionally, as an exception, does he drink
picks up other rarer types of rhymes,
for example, interrupted (according to the ABC scheme):

The sun is hot over the village
It's so red in the evenings
It's like she's bleeding,
It's definitely wounded.

So called girded (Abba):
Autumn, grumpy grandma,
All from the rains

Vrotsit through the stubble of fragrant fields,
Where it's damp and chilly.

. b (Autumn).

Petr Oreshin does not use it at all
"white"
rich sound capabilities at our disposal
the placement of internal hidden rhymes. That's why
his verse sometimes seems too harsh,
like a scream, thanks to concentration on the con-
This is the line with all the power of the rhyme strike.

In general, the poetic power of Pyotr Oresh-
on, apparently, not in the subtle game of consonance -
mi, but rather in one-sided development
forms of end rhyme, in the richness of the rhyme
ny combinations. His rhyming vocabulary is rich and
original; there are rare and bold harmonies
(huts - offended, soot - clap, golden
chilly - prince, grandmother * - chilly and. etc.) Met
Patterns are also expected - blood - love, torment -

I

*) Metric characteristics of Pyotr Oreshin,
I leave its rhythm and sound structure of the verse
aside, because in this area there are individual running
general comments cannot have value, and only concise
results of a very thorough and quite accurate analysis
can provide a basis for reliable statements.

(unrhymed) verses and 6b0-

sounds), but this is not typical. Almost always
rhyme emphasizes words that are important to
the meaning of the poem.

However, Pyotr Oreshin's rhyme is not always

deep enough*).
One might think that these features of the reef
Pyotr Oreshin's actions depend on his
predilections in general are more towards the image (in terms of
in any sense) rather than to sound. In images he
sometimes achieves great expressiveness;
He is especially good at dynamic images;
wind and scream - favorite images of Peter Ore-
tire,

The wind is like a daring thiefworld audit
space, throwing handfuls of gold
stars, bridges the mountains and
rivers, makes the deep skies laugh
and moaning blocks of torn clouds (Wind, Autumn)
etc.

And here is another image: the wind is home
habitual enemy, inseparable evil brother:
Wind. brother-in-law all the straw from the roof,

Climbs into the pipe and hits the damper

`The wind moves through the rafters of the huts
The wind is always and everywhere with me
Your reluctant brother

(In the village).

Even static states of nature
Petr Oreshin portrays in dynamic
images: “The blue night is stealing”... (Dawns over
disappeared through the forest), “The evening is flowing.” . „Evening
creeps in the window" (Evening), "Autumn quarrel-
Grandma, all made of rain, wanders through the stubble
fragrant fields“... (Autumn).

Petr Oreshin often and with extraordinary
boldly uses images of screaming:

Basil the Blessed howled into the heavens.
(Oh it's burning. Like a candle the city)
But... Is it a human shadow without a voice?
Screaming in the smoking bushes
(In the fields)
The alarm then “laughs”, “cries loudly and
and offended” “The Scarlet Temple”, “In the Fields”, etc.)
The very verse of Pyotr Oreshin does not “sing”
as usual with the pdet, but he “screams.”
...My poem to my native land
At least shout for me
(About myself)

*) The rhyme is considered all the more perfect, or, as
they say “deep” or “full”, the more riff-
muted words have common sounds; in this regard
In this case, the coincidence of the so-called is especially important. "I agree"
pore”, i.e. in the consonant immediately preceding
zhas4 stressed vowel (classical example: darkness
- pupil

| 2
No. 5

o 39

The religion of revolution is the basis of creativity
paeesa Peter Oreshin. It is alien to him to contemplate
meaningful and abstract assessment of phenomena;
he is a direct participant in the revolution
tion storm experiences it emotionally
and recklessly, not “accepting”, but “welcoming”
and admiring: let the cannons drill the
ry in the starry skies, let the brave ones sway
we and Moscow burn like a candle, but she
shines “to the whole world”, but

"The nights are convict darkness
The white willow blossomed.

th (Oh, the city burns like a candle)
And to go in shackles to Siberia, to kill an accident -
yanno “in the dark” of one’s brother – heavy

"Way of the Cross" throughvictims, but to resentment
teli Saint.
#. The sky is burning blue
The fields sparkle with gold
Don't we dare to dream?
Are we not living the dream?
(The rye unfolded magnificently)
In revolution, the realization of all
hopes:
There is no place for dreams in my chest
The soul is on golden wings
(Scarlet Temple).
However, the technical strength of the poet is not all
where corresponds to the energy of his feelings and
sometimes he starts talking almost in style
editorials of a liberal newspaper under the old
mode:
G We have neither order nor school

m in PO V E U a U V:

Instead of school, isn't it the sea?
It was given to us from above
(Thinking)*
Instead of a living image, he gives a dead one
’ inexpressive maxim:
° ^ Russian people from the cradle live “on
_maybe“...

(Rus' under a heavy cross)
Where is our holy brotherhood?
Where is great love?

(War)
_ Those who died for freedom in the titanic struggle,
You have to love your friends until your last breath.

(Without father)
If the description of the battlefield contains unexpected
but a line breaks through, as if from an old
‚ fashionable romance: “The torn strings yearn

x about us“(And crying and groaning on the battlefield), if the poet,

„ inappropriately uses unnecessary archaisms
° {sword, block), sometimes allows rude non-
matches: “radiant boots” (Waiting),

_^ Or direct stylistic errors: “wind”

came out of the “damp swamps”, the shackles “weighed
zhely" (tautology), then in these unevenness
and annoying distortions of poetic speech
we see only some negligence and
haste in finishing poetic details
forms. m

Strange unevenness of poetic speech
Petra. Oreshina sometimes amazes
stretch of four lines: the first two lines
the final otrophy of the water poem -
from the cycle “Without a Tsar” we are completely
They don't convince.

We walk under bullets - and the burden is heavy,
It is dark and the alarm sounds in thunderstorms.

“Heavy is the burden” - a verbal formula,
a diagram without any real meaning. By-
the last two lines convey a living, tragic
ical picture.

Who's there? Not visible. Hit the dark.

I looked closer - my dear brother.

(We are going from the Volga)

Peter `Oreshin is sometimes characterized by hidden
melting and concentrated expressive energy
mostwow master of words: sometimes only
to successful parallelism and the image of the wind pre-
rotates almost into a symbol of liberty:

The wind whistles through the ravines,
Moaning in the abyss of the world
I'm flying a red flag
For Russia into battle,

(Wind)

More expressively elsewhere:

The wind whistled - the steppe
Stunned Lada
Stenka, free Cossack
He responded in the distance.

(Daughter of steep banks)

When paralleling images, the effect here is
is also achieved by the correlation of the words “vol-
ny" and "responded",

'When a poet strives to achieve ex-
vigor through purely external means,
as an intentional and artificial symbolization
tion in capital letters (Horse—Deathbringer,
Bright-eyed Joy, songs of Labor and Rass-
Veta), and when he is in verse instead of live
gives pictures that have already become trivial
slogans: “He who is not for us is against us,”
“Land to the people”, “Land and freedom is our motto”,
"Enough blood" etc. (To peace in the fields,
etc.), then I think that this means -
there is no limitation of creative imagination
poet’s thoughts, and partly technical elaboration
pain, partly still too effective
the proximity of the great unrest of the time.

Claudia Lavrova.

40th Tue

No. 5

On the question of the nature of Turgenev's creativity.

Two sides of Turgenev's creative personality,
and thus two elements in his work are easily
reflected in one letter from Yves, Serg. to Mrs.
Viardot (1849): :

“You probably don’t know, but you found out -
those, if I say that I never go to bed
sleep early midnight. And just yesterday I
that I was about to leave the living room, when suddenly I heard
took two deep, completely clear breaths,
who distributed it, or rather, who passed by like a
new thing is two steps away from me. Sultan long ago
I was sleeping, I was completely alone. Ego 'caused
I get a slight shiver. Walking down the corridor, I suddenly
thought about what I would do if 6 feel-
I felt that someone grabbed my hand: I
I had to admit that I would have screamed
horror. Positively at night you can be mensz
braver than by day. I would like to know if they are afraid
blind ghosts? Before I go to bed I
I take a short walk every eveningy but
yard Yesterday I stopped and started listening
here are the various sounds heard
by me:

Noise of blood in the ears and breathing.

The rustle is the incessant babbling of leaves.

The crackling of grasshoppers; there were four of them in the trees
in the yard.

The fish produced light on the surface water
cue A noise that sounded like a kiss. 0t
time before time a drop fell © light ©e-
ribbed sound.

Some branch was breaking; who broke it?

That dull sound... is it 476? steps along the road?
or the whisper of a human voice?

And suddenly the finest soprano of a mosquito, which
is heard above your ear...”

Deep mood, lyrical imireseil-
the author's nism, this love of the subtlest
change your cuts, in a nutshell
letter get along side by side © cold observation-
nie, even © the researcher’s account; pisa-
` tel, © his desire for analysis invades
area of the sensing person; the reality of the performance
falls for the appearance of a romantic; looms
at the same time. author of prose poems, li-
Rick of the Russian, landscape, lyricist of love and death,

`

.
b |
and the author of a social novel with his almost on. |
scientific-historical generalizations and apt
characteristics, _ |
Duality is generally characteristic of Tourism.
Geneva, |
Contemporaries of Turgenev were Goncharoz,
Dostoevsky and Ev Tolstoy, creators of the great >
Russian novel. These names should be followed by =
to see Nisemsky and, finally, Grigorovich in
Leskova © their attraction to the great novel,
Already Pushkin is the creator of “Eugonia Onegin” 1
"The Captain's daughter" - he vividly felt the need
the nature of Russian literature in a large generalization
general novel; he also pushed Gogol to develop
boot of “Dead Souls”, and he bleated lawfully
numerous short stories and tales have been transferred" -
heading towards a great novel: as we know, “The Dead”
souls" were only the beginning of this novel, Even _
Lermontov, go to your grave so early, oh...
We think the novel is quite large in volume.
Thus, without exaggeration, we modem _
to say that Turgenev’s work flowed through Mr.
an atmosphere saturated with great romance. And,
this, if we embrace everythinggiven by Turgeni
you, then in contrast to us it will sharply rush into the haa-
for the main feature of Turgen's creatures: this is their
conciseness, their brevity, strict limited;

forms, and Turgenev's novel itself will appear
before us as a result of the fight between the pietel-legs 1
sheet © infectious element of its time No.
the element of great reman. Poem VP =
ze—it’s like a hidden stremler _
Turgenev. Is that why I spent so much time?
us “from our” creations, strankl, -
representing the same poetry in prose?
Goncharov’s vague fluidity, cumbersome—
sti, multi-storey networks of Dostoevsky, girantek
We won’t find Toletoy’s panoramic canvases at Tur-
Geneva: the short story is his favorite form, and
naturally. from Turgenev to carry out the threads in
Garshin and Chekhov and © other parties, to M-„,
Passana. G ?
Turgenev was a deeply educated person
who is of his time, who is alien to exact knowledge,
Familiar with German philosophy and European
koy literature,’ passed public

B

aw

[$
a 5

No. 5

——sch—_—=schi———=ыы—==ы—=——==—-

school in the circles of Belinsky, Bakunin, Gra-
new, Herzen. Stankevich, Turgenev alive
otkaikaley both on current issues of the day and on 0b-
the most inveterate questions of Russian public opinion
sti. Serfdom, the stagnation of everyday life, the monastery
liar and superfluous person, nihilism. revolution and
evolution, Westernism and Slavophilism
——to all these questions and phenomena Russian
life, Turgenev approached the fork. The rot-
new to him, the esthete and lyricist, was extremely
demanding of oneself, to overcome opposition
creating a mold to fell such a variety of p
complex spiritual content in a strictly closed
thy, complete creations; so that within the framework of
wells to exhaust the crowded soaps, society
spiritual moods and images.

None of the three great contemporaries
- Goncharov, Dostoevsky. Toletogo—I don’t feel-
such intense work on the formation
mine, like Turgenev’s, so careful
the detailing of every page, such completeness.
Turgenev is a better writer-artist than them, and
in Him the fundamental essence is felt more stronglymouth Hu-
dozhnik with a subtle aesthetic sense: ©0zda-
they perceive the manifestations of art more clearly than phenomena
true life, Turgenev’s art was eclipsed
life takes over.

Maybe this trait of Turgenev,
love for form, for art more than
into life, and caused mainly the dis-
passion for the personality of the writer, which is known
cherished the n®proper esthete and his artist
great contemporaries. The words Tur-
Geneva. which 9he reserved in one letter no.
Goncharov: “Toletoy thinks that I’m reading and
I drink and utter phrases.., How much anger is in
in Dostoevsky’s words about reading ‘at a holiday’
„„ Parmazinov (“Demons”): “Well, wasn’t it better
How about reading a little story, tiny one?
a story like the one he wrote before -
that is, even though it’s polished and cutesy, *), but
sometimes with wit?” The same skelsis of the inveterate
a realist close to real life, heard
appears in Goncharov’s letter to Turgenev according to
water of Turgenev's first public novel:
“To you.” it seems,” writes Goncharov, “not given
to enliven real life with fantasy, &
color fantasy with real life,
so at times, in places, so that it is not too
com is ghostly and transparent. Tyra. and lyre-vogue
your instrument."

Turgenev's works are largely

this one is his

_ “literature”, “art” than works of writing

ma then

*) Italics pash.

BURN. 41

satels named above; Turgenev noticed
no, how these creations are made, how they are conceived,
be it a novel’ or a prose poem. On-
end; in Turgenev binders are more strongly exposed
NITI © creations of other authors. literature=
new tradition has more noticeably imposed its
hand.

In the article’ about the novel by Eugenia Tur’ (1852).
“Niece”, Turgenev speaks about women’s Ta-
lantah: “there is something wrong in them, something wrong”
literary, running straight from the heart, unthought-
semolina, finally - in a word, something like that, 683
why they would encroach on a lot and, between
by the way, for a four-story novel. At t-zha

The tour has no "talent." which poet seems to consciously

carefully picks it up."

This is “consciously takingt in hand" was
inherent in Turgenev. The same cult of aesthetics
skilful processing, artistic implementation
we see life in Turgenev’s saovs about writing
Tel-narodniks (letter from Ya. TsP. Polonekiy,
1868): “Ability cannot be denied ‘in
all these Sleptsovs, Smetannikovs, Uspen-
skikhs, etc.—but where is the fiction, the power, the imagination?
fiction, fiction, where? They make up nothing but
can--and. perhaps. they even rejoice at it: that way
we, they believe, are closer to the truth. True—-
air, without which one cannot breathe; but bad
gesture - plant,
wonderful - which matures and develops in this
air. And these gentlemen are seedless and sow
nothing. they can."

Ideology always accompanied Turgenev, but
his inherent aestheticism, taste for the elegant,
strength in his work. this is the ability to “take yourself
hands", i.e. the ability to harmoniously combine shapes
and content. But sometimes—one must admit—
the writer's struggle with biased bias
brought into his works the spirit of some kind of surrounding
Glenn moderation. The fire of ascetic power
ralnoeti, who incinerated Togol; this thirst
seeing him through the visions of his creativity is all:o
Rus; ‘the mad aspiration of the Dostoevsky ©
his eternal antithesis of personality and society,
the burning tempo of crime; finally, last
nihilism of Tolstoy, ready © creepy fearless-
Let's abandon obvious values—veo
it is extreme, drastic. exciting naye, all this
somehow far from Turgenev.  Nostephevoets,
evolutionist, friend of culture and progress, lover
beating justice. female knight, Tour-
genev ‘is able to find both in content and form
the corresponding middle. He didn't get it
“to hit the hearts with an unknown force”, but
he will be able to create creations that are obvious and transparent.
ny ones with whom reading will always be good,

sometimes even quite pr-,

42 G; ER: RH

__/No. 5

This is exactly the “without a hitch” that we admire
raclairized the work of Turgenev by Ev’ Tolstoy
in one letter,

Turgenev himself about this side of his creativity
stva says this:

“It’s not that I don’t want to, but I don’t want to
I can't write anythingget away with
biased by thought and purpose to carry out
one idea or another. I have a work coming out
literary the way grass grows, I am in the wind
tea, for example. in the life of some Fekla
Andreevna, some Peter, some
Ivan, and imagine what suddenly happens in this one. Thekle
Andreeviye, in this Netra, in this Ivan, it’s time
Something special strikes me, something I haven’t seen
and have not heard from others. I peered at him. on
he or she makes a special impression on me
lection: I’m thinking about it, and then this Thekla, from
Peter, it’s Ivan, they’re moving away, disappearing unknown
I don’t know where, but the impression they produced,
left, zrezt. I compare these faces with each other
other persons, I introduce them into the sphere of various monetary
developments and now a whole new world is being created for me -
rock... Why, unexpectedly, unexpectedly ‘is
the need to depict this little world... In this way
So, no preconceived tendency by me
hesitantly and never leads.”

Not everything in these words of the writer can be
accepted without reservation; difficult, for example, to con-
to deal with thought 06 organic origin-
Institute of Turgenev's creations: this is more suitable for)
Leo Tolstoy and even Goncharov. No, kah
we said. Turgenev was too eetet-hu-
the dog on the other hand is too thin and
an impartial thinker, he worked hard
thoughts on your work. knew how to move away
away from him and approach again; spirit
samples, experiments. spirit of cold weighing-
niya was too characteristic of Turgenev—this
tele. For example, let's stop at Romanu
"Fathers and Sons".

Turgenev paid a lot of attention to this novel
worked, which we know from numerous statements
tion of the author himself and we see. with more careful
nom study of the novel. Represented by Bazarov, the author
had the intention of giving a certain type. How to
did he achieve his task? Turgenev took it as, on-
tur, alive” face. a friend of the district doctor,
and the specific living features of this person are borrowed
worked for the portrait of Bazarov. But along with
with this the author has done complex and thorough work
bit of generalization of the mental current that
second © light hand TurgEneva received the name
nihilism. In a few statements by Bch-
zarova, sometimes thrown accidentally, into the prosgoi
conversations." the author needed to give the core of nihili-

otic theory, and this should have been done
so that the conversation is truly lively
ordinary character. without any admixture it is no worse.
public reasoning. With this difficult task
Turgenev did a brilliant job: Vaz’s replicas.
ditches, thrown, seemingly casually, as if from
honestly, became classic, retaining their
sharp meaning to this day. But not only
to a simple conversation, the face of Va-
Zarova, even more clearly the features of his whole
character emerge from his actions:
we see the practical attitude of Bazarov E
to the nobility, to the people. to science and art, x
love and friendship. to death, to parents, etc.
To become close to one’s spiritual figure
hero to create a truly living face,
Turgenev kept a diary. on behalf of Bazarov, but, x
Unfortunately, this preparatory sketch for
the portrait has not reached us. Curious goes on
the consciousness of Turgenev's creativity spilled
Here's one passage from a letter to the poet Slucheveky
(1862):

“All true deniers,” says Turgo-
genev.——whom I knew—-66with exceptions—
(Belinsky, Bakunin, Herzen, Dobrolyubov,
Speshnev, etc.) came from relatively good-
rich and honest parents, and this concludes -
He was the great one; it takes away from the doers, from

denying any shadow of personal indignation,

personal irritability. They are walking along
road only because they are more sensitive to traffic
expectations of people's life."

In these words of the writer, Lezhlig conveyed the meaning of
on "Fathers and Sons", from them we see. like Her
the artist's intention to depict the ancient world is accidental.
rikov Bazarovs precisely in that positive
light, as is done in the novel.

“The qualities given to Bazarov are not accidental.
I wanted to make a tragic face out of him - here
there was no time for tenderness—so the author admits in
the same letter to Slucheveky. In a letter to Dr.
to Zhinin (1856) Turgenev says about nihilism:
“for you this is the direction - sa delusion that
must be eradicated; for me it is incomplete
the truth that will always find (and must find)
followers at that age of human life
not when the complete truth is not yet available.”

These two statements speak volumes about how much
Turgenev worked on his task and how to construct
he cheated him; striving for objective, accurate
depiction of a type of denier, the author wished to
thoroughly come to life © by understanding it. no matter how far
stood from him in his own spiritual make-up.
In this task, more than anywhere else,
Turgenev's desire to free himself from his
lyricism, from their views and habits; volitsa
ev.

No. 5

Mountains:

43

The author himself would subject Bazarov to strict
revaluation of the values to which he was faithful
life. In any case, having given up the protection of these
appreciate such figures as the Kirsan brothers
you—the author shows extraordinary ideological
softness and pliability. And yet in ef0m
clash between fathers and sons, seeking
No. objective, in the role of a simple spectator, author
can't stand it to the end: too overwhelming
This turned out to be a task for him. Compliant b
area of ideas, he remained himself in the area

feelings. and if in the facts of unsuccessful love Kir-.

rank of senior, as revealed in the novel, and
in the history of the relationship between Bazarov and Odintse-
howling one feels bitterness and doubt, then this assessment
You involuntarily attribute a great feeling to
to the author himself; and that affirming cry of love
vi, then Maupassant’s “strong as death”,
which are revealed in the depiction of everything flaring up -
Bazarov's ongoing passions reveal to us
Turgenev's true faith, which coexisted next to
his bitterness and doubts. From the ideological side
Bazarov was recognized as representatives of the military
current in the person of Pisarev is the right type. new
people.

Providers of the opposite camp, ka-
turnover, caught from the novel by the author’s reverence
before the fashionable 'current. Annenkov is so heavenly
calls about his visit to Katkov in connection with © ro-
man: “Katkov received me very good-naturedly,
but his speech was restrained. They didn't go
shared a novel, but on the contrary,from the very first words
remarked: “Shame on Turgenev.
take the flag to the radicals and give it to him,
as before an honored warrior."... "This can
know what this guy will turn into? After all, this
just the beginning of it, Exalt early and
decorating it’ with the flowers of creativity means de-
It’s twice as difficult to fight him later.”

The author himself of “Fathers and Sons” and after finishing
body finishing of the novel, mainly in
connections with political events of the day. will show
great persistence. Annenkov says
to us, as before his appearance in print, Romach
has already experienced three decisions or catastrophes, which
which were destined for him: burning in the fireplace, re-
Siziov's work on Bazarov's face. suspension
appearance in print. This should be seen
not only shaky ambiguity (ambiguity)
Turgenev’s political and social position, but
also the aesthetic demands of strict

The author is in himself.

Finished. elegant creations of Turgenev

The spirit of experimentation is also strong. You can catch

as the same idea. the same life
a different collision or the same type of accident

torus explores in various positions, like
He brings up artistic experiences of different genders.
marriages to bring out the same truth,
Let’s compare, for example, “Rudina” and “Smoke”. In that
and in another case the opposition of feelings
whole and deep. superficial feeling
and fragmented. Natasha and Rudin, Irina and Lit-
guilt - perhaps. these are not similar provisions, © toyu
the only difference is that in the second case the whole
your character is a man, he invites you
does a woman suffer from escape and half-heartedness?
“Either everything, ‘or nothing,” writes Litvinov in Tsisma
to Irina. I would sign these words
Natasha.

Interesting data on the topic 0b experiment
can be ‘derived from the comparison of “Nobleman
nests" and "The day before". 06th things appear
into the world one after the other (1859 and 1860)...

In both novels, represented by Lisa and Elena
the author takes on the same character. but in per-
by any chance? passive character, in the second—-
active, first to arrivemiresia and
monasticism of the monastery, the second - to struggle and re-
revolution. In the author’s attempts to trace the image
The same pattern is visible in the formation of these characters.
It would be long to cite the pages covered
similar to the description of the childhood of Lisa and Elena, but comparable
The insight into these places in the novel is very valuable. Attentive-
a savvy reader would be convinced. like Turgenev alone -
kovo explores a number of influences on the production of two
characters that are fundamentally similar and different
nyh by external identification. Lisa Kalitina
“I didn’t like to play with dolls. laughed out loud

And not for long, she behaved sedately."
, m

there are traits of passivity.” "With great intelligence her God
did not reward”; “she didn’t have her own “trees”, but
had their own thoughts”; “so she dug calmly,
leisurely "... "She loved God alone with delight -
feminine, timid and tender”... These are the nanboloe you-
bulging places in Lisa’s character. Each
the trait indicates passiveness, calmness
contemplative, but deeply religious soul
Lisa's warehouse. :

Elena “at first adored her father. then passionately
I became attached to my mother and lost interest in both of them.” In these
In words, the character is already restless. seekers.
Further: “her demands are not taken away from anything,
the very prayers were more than once mixed with reproach; "everyone
impressions came sharply into my soul...” “She
© childhood yearned for activity, active
good”... These are the features of Elena’s activity. 0 digit
in company with a beggar girl, Turgenev says that
Elena “would rather allow herself to be torn to pieces,
how will he give away his secret,” distinguishing fire
religious asceticism, which covers
soul of Elena,
44

Thus, the plot of the novels “Noble
nest" and "The day before" the task is already predetermined
the author's effort to trace the development and fate of the two

deep characters, similar in strength, but
different in attitude. In one case
the struggle of life leads to renunciation. to from-
kazoo, v. another - in persistently overcoming obstacles
stiy. but in both cases

basis is the equally striking feature of mobility -
quality. :

According to Ovsyaniko-Kulikovsky, Turgenev

I am "one of the greatestrepresentatives °

creativity about 'active'. Turgenev himself
letter to Deulov (1876) outlines the technique
objective creativity and recognizes that exactly
such were his methods. Indeed, Tur-
Genev in most of his creations is busy studying
vision and depiction of someone else’s life, he strives
strives for impartiality, for generalization, for precise--
sti. This manner of him starting his novels and
conduct this carefully. as for example: “10 av-
August 1862 at four o'clock in the afternoon in Baden
Baden" ... or "In the spring of 1868, I chafed in the first
day, in St. Petersburg”... etc.; this is his thoroughness
description of the costume. appearance, environment - everything
this is characteristic of an objective realist. Usually
Turgenev, without merging with the characters of his pro-
information, or completely hides his face
from the reader's gaze or stands above his re-
by pressing; these are also signs of objectivity.
In Dostoevsky, on the contrary, the writer’s “I” often
intervenes in the thick of the action; not only that,
Dostoevsky usually humbles himself to his
swarms, plunges headlong into the life of the person depicted
them corner, putting on the guise of an ordinary person. Let's take it
for example, a description of that scandalous incident
sucker. who in the "society" made the prince's visit
Myshkin and Aglaya to Nastasya Filipiovna
(Idiot", part GU, vol. 1X). The venerable people here
He gets really confused, apologizes that it’s difficult to “explain”
thread of what happened"; "general curiosity
gossip" seems legitimate to him; he's completely at ease
totov share “and the very indignation of which?
Myshkin aroused even his friends."
it. d.it. d. We refer the reader to this substitution
chapter. We will not return to such manners
at Turgenev's. For contrast, let's take
an example of Turgenev's description of “light” in the novel
"Smoke":

“Not a single sincere word, not a single sensible
thoughts, not a single new fact from all this be-
coherent and lifeless chatter. In the Saiga Cree
You could hear the sounds and exclamations of enthusiasm; in the very
there was no passion for reproach: only because
rarely from under the guise of pseudo-civil indignation

No. 4-5

vanity, imaginary contemptuous indifference
key pthe lawsuit was driven by the fear of possible losses -
cov. yes several names, which the offspring do not
will forget, was pronounced with gnashing of teeth... And
at least a drop of life flow over all this
trash and thief! What an old thing. how unnecessary
nonsense, what bad trifles occupied all these
heads, these souls, and not only in this century
what the hell were they interested in, not only in the world, but
and at home .at all hours and days, across the entire width and width
binu of their existence! And what ignorance in
finally! What a misunderstanding of everything. on what
creator of how human life is decorated!”

In these passages we see not so much a description,
drawing, how much we feel the indignation of the writing
body standing significantly higher than the one depicted
environment. This manner, apparently, is completely different
thread from Dostoevsky’s manner.

One could cite as many reasons as possible.
measures. plaguing us, which Turgenev willingly
depicted something alien and alien that he was subtle
an observer of life and at the same time a subtle we-
researcher who knew how to generalize the observed phenomena
nia. All this would be evidence of objective
features of Turgenev’s creativity. But our article we
started just by pointing out duality
personality. Turgenev, and thought. what would be right
It’s good to say. what's his. objectivism invariably
accompanied by hidden objectivism. The author is a poet,
lyricist Goncharov’s remark “lyre and lyre, here
your instrument,” is not so far from the truth.

“Notes of a Hunter”, “Faust”, “Clara _ Mi-
Lich", "Song of Triumphant Love". "Nobles-
"sky's nest", prose poems and
much more—you just have to remember all this,
to agree © Goncharov's definition.
Maybe Turgenev's lyricism will be right

call it objective lyricism. This form is often

found in Lermontov (for example, “Sail”,
"Cliff"); the author speaks 9 to himself, about his mood
research solely by comparing external volumes.
times; these images symbolize the mood
poet. We will also find it in Turgenev, no matter how
he was stingy in showing his “I”, as if
He protects himself behind the backs of his heroes. According to the conclusion
according to P.V. Anneyukov Turgenev, represented fromhimself as a European-cultured person, who
the noise and talk of a big, political
developed center of civilization. interesting knowledge

relationships, unexpected meetings, debates about tasks
languishes, of the present moment - even jokes and talk.

crowds, of course, not for the sake of their maintenance, & for the sake of
that they reflect the mood of people, their
created or repeated, and draw the same amount
themselves, as many as those who became pre-
method of their slander."... "In Turgenev's nature, but

a lot,

>

a

:
E
|.

to

_ Turgenev had to make great efforts,

No. 5

there was food for the elements for long-term support of the eo-
contemplation: he was looking for events, living faces, waves and
scatteredness of the real, working,
struggling existence." In these words we
we find an explanation of Turgenev’s echtivism: he
already lay in the character of the writer, the spiritual world
which did not have sharp corners and dangerous angles
new On the outside, it would seem alien, the writer
actively responded, and in this cultural, pro-
The key to the writer’s luminous responsiveness lies
the fusion of his objectivism and his lyrics. Need la
to
distract yourself from your moods and experiences
di images of Rudin, Bazarov or Nezhda-
new? No, for him it was organically natural
Yutvenio, this did not distort the main character traits
tera writer,

Let us dwell in some detail on the general
Turgenev's novel. To such a writer
like Turgenev, © his features are an esthete and a lyricist, p
at the same time, a writer with an eternal craving for culture
tourno-philosophical" generalizations, in the novel
‹it was necessary to combine the tasks of an elegant style, the tasks
conciseness and drama and, on the other hand, for-
dachas of significant public content.

Already by the very choice of topics Turgenev was able to
pose pressing questions of our time. Everyone
his novel approached the issue of social
features of the Russian man in his varieties. Da-
the nineteenth century in the history of our cultural
society is marked sometimes by hidden, sometimes obvious
nervousness about two possibilities
social work: and preparation of the revolution, from
rejection of everything old andfaith in public
catastrophe? or the cult of the slow builder
ties, belief in the so-called gradualism, in
evolution. into reform? These two lines of behavior
Turgenev, who gravitated towards
the second solution to the problem. But carefully study
who lived and the manifestations of the first worldview.
Turgenev's novels sought to answer these
questions: the author carefully and, as it seemed to him,
conscientiously debunked the type of denier and re-
revolutionary, trying not to fall into crude terms,
trying to maintain due justice
(thus differing favorably from Pisemevoy and Lesko-
va). The author tried to artistically reveal
a type of cultural worker close to him - a gradualist
(Litvinov, Solomin...), but is this task less for him?

‚ was a success, Just as it was not a success for literary

Turgenev's associates. To reveal more clearly
inner world, reveal the character of your hero,
Turgenev, in the interests of conciseness and drama,

45

'

threw a thorough and complex analysis of the muscle-
of the hero, & only briefly stopped at
his practical work. and to your attention
reduced to only two moments - moments of love
and death—obviously, assuming. that in these moments
a person is recognized especially clearly. How he loves
catcher and how does he die? Here's the whitewash, on the catz-
rm tests Turgenev every major of his
their heroes. He puts forward this technique in relation to and
Rudin, and Insarov, and Bazarov, and Nezhdanov =
others. This is how Turgenev substitutes very skillfully
social problem that requires great
novel, a psychological problem, resolving
mine and within a condensed style.

But Turgenev’s moto also included large
difficulties. Bringing down the hero's public test
essentially psychological, the author took a risk
not to resolve the artistic question of the general
tional value of one type or another, author
could leave too unclear that public
background, those social conditions that gave rise to
6th hero. It was necessary to make up for this lack
just a simple short story from the writer,
proved a lot, as they say, with his ©l0-
by you. From here, from thissupplement needs
the famous historicism of Turgenev arose, these
thaw and entry, cultural-historical
eviye certificates, biographical annexes in ro-
manah, This work is essentially prose work
Turgenev performed very subtly, in-depth
highlighting the social value of her novel.

For the sake of completeness and condensed drama
Turgenev is monistic in relation to those depicted
persons He always has one face in the novel:
gaavnym, a hero in the usual sense, and all
The event occurs on 00 of this person. Not so, for example
measures, in Tolstoy and especially in Dostoevsky. Vepom-
there is an abundance of equivalent persons in “War and Peace”;
or at Dostoevsky's, next to Raskolnikov's
Svidrigailov, Karamazov. finally, "Demons"
this novel is a kaleidoscope, where all the faces are so lonely
equally bright and equally interesting,

Heroes of Toletoy or Goncharov. not shy

broad form of a great novel, live in the sub-

in a certain sense, before the reader’s eyes: they grow, me-
No, they are getting old. Turgenev values unity
time and place, he gives complete, vivid
but outlined and finished figures. Otherwise oh
and could not, constrained by the confines of a compressed 0bto-
a valuable novel.

Turgenev most often rewards his heroes
pale companions, and this pallor companion
nicknames seem to emphasize the brightness of the main
faces.  `
46 KOREA

No. 5

}

Thus, the drama of their novels,
full of such compressed brilliance, Turgenev pre-
uses simple techniques, its plot is uncomplicated,
sleep—or rather—yellow and transparent, Turgekev himself
repeatedly admitted that the construction
problems, their architectural side is the most unpleasant
’ part of literary work for him, and that
to write a novel with an intricate plot, with

complex intrigue, he would lack imagination" -

nia". In this regard, sharply noted from Tur-
Geneva Dostoevsky, who always has such
complex, tangled plot,

Turgenev managed to successfully solve the problem
creating a compressed, complete, gracefully
a novel with a broad social content
reaping Estoticism and lyricism determined Turgen-wu his short style of writing, and the method of condensation
forced him to record the life of the heroes in its culture
mentation manifestations and at the same time the same
the method led Turgenev to some noted
us in our own unique ways.

A. Nasimovich.

Ku

r
No. 5

GOR

47

®

1.

The poet has the energy of expression; in that year
Persuasiveness; he is confident in himself; he is truthful;
with this power of his truth he conquers us; in
the intonation of the lines breathes heat. his truth.

Indeed: the intonation of a convinced person
centuries different from the intonation of a person, delivered-
much to the external necessity of expressing t9
this and that. What is intonation? What is the
Zhenya se? In raising, in lowering voices, in
rhythm, and in pauses, in accelerations go20s&mt. d.;

- external expressions of spiritual pathos, studied

also known as external expressions of feelings:
certain changes in the body (flushing or
flow of blood to the brain and heart, muscle movements
expressions of our larynx, faces) are studied; and Khvizhemya
The souls are reflected in them.

The famous psychologist W. Wundt develops
theory of the origin of the word facial expressions: he vekry-

„ Calls first physiologists and psychology of gesture,

then, he clearly deduces the development of speech from
gestures; then he opens the gesture of sound, in ralu
other gestures, like a later type of gesture; and, however,
nets, shows how a sound gesture in its more
in the later period it develops into a sound meta.
head start: as we know, metaphor is creation
two images into a new one, but a sound metaphor—
combining sounds into the unity of their diversity;
unity of many different sounds
is phonetically any articulate
word,

It is not chaos (not a cry); it is an organization
sounds, where there is a dominant sound, determining
brightened by the force of pronunciation (emphasis), and where
there are also minor side sounds; member
a non-separable word from the sound side
clearly differs from an animal cry in that
namely, that it is a sound collective; in it
vowels, or tones, clearly emitted
conscious tension of the laryngeal ligaments, two
pressing lips etc. etc., it contains consonants, productions
wearable movementtongue, lips and palate,
either narrowing or completely interrupting the flow

rhythm.

exhalation; variety of movements make up -
Xia qualitative heterogeneity of sounds in the mouth;
every sound in this meaning is a gesture, or dvm-
motion, m ‘sound metaphor, word, phenomenon
connection of gestures of the larynx, lips, mouth,
tongue, controlling the action of the exhalation stream -
nia; It’s hard to eat an organic collective of these
cores, the unity of their diversity, where any
vowel - a gesture of the point of exhalation, its strength, pr-
broken in the gesture of movement of the lips, tongue, etc.
The whole variety of shocks is rhythm; member?-
a separate word rhythmically rhythmic
scattered ha0e tremors; with careful
observations of the force of vowel exhalation impulses
We note three of the words: diversity of strength
toyachkov, for example, I say: “head”, -successful
ronie falls on the last syllable of the word; but this
does not mean at all that the syllables “go-zho” are equivalent
ny: on the syllable “go” there is a secondary stress; s0b-
Actually, the entire stress relief is as follows: head;
The organization here is based on stress.

(The organization of stress is rltm.

The articulate spruce is rhythmic; tin department
are pauses: breaks of sounds; when there is-
rum natural pronunciation of words breaks
cause 60 stopping of the exhaling stream;
after a few words the air supply is exhausted; we
we feel the need to sigh; when you sigh
the pause is longer; This is the main pause.

Sentence - there is a combination of words: t. ?.
very big sound team or intact
sound groups. Listen to the beat -
words, we easily notice that on one of
them is the main emphasis that determines the intensity
tion; the sentence "light shines" emphasizes
the fact of svot regardless of the force of eg", 12
glow strength; the accents are different:
1) “yet shines,” 2) “light shines.”

Unity of diversity of stress
there is a sentence rhythm.

Puzzles between words draw a contrast in teaching" -
nia. In the connection of the words “sunset “sunset // and” -
“usually beautiful,” between the words “sunset.”
and “unusually” patriotically fell

|
48 HORN.

No. 5

main pause: “extraordinarily” is
long, a six-syllable word ending
accent; and we instinctively stock up here
air (we inhale); and after ‘we exhaust
exhalation stream; need for shock growth;
and it falls with force on the syllable “ve”; that's why
the main stress of the sentence is located
like this: “sunset // unusually beautiful”; and right
more careful placement of strikes, should
we involuntarily arrange them: “blockage // unusual-
absolutely beautiful." s

Each sentence is an organism of stress I
pauses; it contains equal pauses, there are no two stresses,
similar in style to each other; connection between pauses and oud
rum yena; before or after the natural pause mu
we press ekdal accents:

"Hours /| awesome fight
“Tomitelnakh // the night to breathe”, etc.

The organization of stress is the first external

definition of rhythm, Ra

p.

How does the rhythm of a poetic line differ from
regular meter?

Because the meter breaks the line mechanically
into separate equal-impact groups, determined
their character: “o—-” for iambic, <-> for trochees
and the multi-foot rhythm of the lines combines into one
lexical whole; and therefore it is essential
the difference between rhythm and meter; there is rhythm
attitude inbeh feet; he is their integrity:
meter - stop order: their size. brought to the goal -
ness; rhythm outside the meter is possible; but a meter outside
rhythmic movements are waste, there is death,
deposition, death of poetry. Characterizing the metric
Tyutchev's lines

“It’s often a monotonous battle,
"A Tale of the Night"
I express them graphically like this:
, ? ’ ’
0—/0—/—/0—/ :
) , , )
0—/0—0—/ω0—/0

Characterizing rhythmically also two-part

‚ sew; ——I will get a more accurate recording:

Hours /] monotonous battle
A languid // night story.

g.e.k
0—/0—/0—/0—/
0—/0—/0—10—/0

Inside the second entry-- first entry: second-
paradise is real, more specifically, more limitedly defined -
determines the structure of lines; deduced quantitative
eilu metric blows from the force of rhythm blows
mic l I can get:

FOOD -/b,1/=2,0,8,1; 4/1,8,2/— 91
b/==3,0,2,1; t, -e, o— 000—0—,0— 000—0—.
In terms of meter, all lines are iambic (0—)

equal; they all fall for the scheme:

\

, th ‚ ’

0—0—0-—0
Butfrom the point of view of iambics - a whole set
unevenly stressed lines; cab then:

1] o-0—ω0—0— 1) 9- 0—0—6s—
2) o—0—0 —0— 8) o—o—o—o—
8 90—00 9) 00 0—0—0—
4) o—o—o-o— 10) 0—0—0o—0—
5) o—o-o-o— 11) o—o—o—0—

6) o—0-— 0o—0— 12 0—0o—0—0o—
so on, so on.

Since the feet of iambic lines are equally stressed
strength, then all iambic lines are equal; if heh different-
are stressed, then the lines are also unstressed, such as:

7! 7'th p!

0— /0— /9—0/—/0
[d t! t
o o yuyu—/0-/
(My uncle has the most honest rules
When I seriously fell ill). :

In the event of a foot collision, maximum impact
friction with the foot is minimal, the feet have
the tendency to merge into the unity of two-etoia; on-
example: foot “0—”, combined with foot
“0—”, Gives a Whole: “0—0—” emphasis is weak
the beat of the foot weakened even more, fading out:
and it approaches unstressed: 000—; Ave.
while reading we pronounce the double-topic as if it exists
peon (000—fourth peon); ponically
the line will ring out to us:

12420 0 . oooh
When | ve got sick.

. I teach
In the collision of stops "0— / o_—" we get

‚ We are close to the “second peon”

,
(90-00);
oh white St"
Tomi telnaya no / chi po | news.
Speaking of "poons" in iambic structures,
we must remember that, strictly speaking,
We are not talking about the peon meter (peons 615
meters), in the iambic merging rhythm
moan. |
The entire doctrine of the fusion of iambic feet into par and pau
in multifoot is clearly developed in Greek met
Rike (there two-footedness is called “dipodia”,
& multi-footed “column”); mo about teachings
Metrics textbooks were silent about this, presenting
rows of unorganized alternation table
and a predilection arose: all feet are de impact
us; The rhythm probably agrees with this; od-
No. 5

—————

however she adds; “Yes, the feet are shocking, but—
not equal to drums.

In accordance with the formal-metric view
scrap we must read the line “When no

’
I got sick as a joke”;
Lia over natural reading:
, "U

Shuzka fell ill.”

Everyone. log’ in each word - stressed; blow-
° new ologists dominate only; exactly the same
” line; among stressed syllables it has no equal;
we naturally come to the conviction: eachgave

and perform an act of hiring
"When not in

The youth's _` in its rhythm is composed in a non-repetitive

washed relief of accents; everyday performance
about meter is abstracted from the specificities of rhythm.

There are no two lost youths; inexhaustible
rhythm is possible. But distracted from the small ones
contrasts in shock networks; and describe the most important
forms of rhythm in the midst of iambic; they are formed from
where the ratio of two blows is equal

I'm talking about AJ

1) are correct 2) 0— 9—:; foot of the smaller holo-
the owl blow loses its heat, pecking at
foot. neighboring; and is placed as. would 'enkli-

. near the pli and even about the image

zuya conventionally peon form: size 0-00
there is a second peon, & size 009—yel four E
ty ° PZON,
_These. forms meet us in iambic6 when Na
and stands a on the first or first
Alom from ‘data. syllables: (“for-couldn’t”), iya
“at half-Day”), on the Chet rehelezhnom ‘(“ma-li-
No-vykh) and more; the main emphasis here is semi-
96 special Phil.
Let us remember: the polyonic forms among the iambs are,
To be honest, only iambic bietopia (i.e.

4 Ty. >
under type: o 00—09.
’ I take eight lines; I celebrate "pony"
& ‚uvukhotonviu
. That t Meter. .
_I remember the long torment: 0—0o—000—0
The night has burned down outside the window; — —00—000—
Her wrung hands › 5 600 —9
‚ They glimmered a little in the daylight, ——000—0—
All life, no need to be lived out, 0—0 - 000—0
And Tortured, humiliated, burned; o— 000—0o—
‚And there, like a ghost of age, 0—0—000—0
_ The forend marked the domes. --00—000—

And

49

From the point of view of abstract metric notation
these lines are typical iambic lines:
0 0—0—0—/0/
Meanwhile: our record was revealed to us at eight
lines of iambic peons: 6 of them are of the type “000—” on
third foot; and one type “o—00” on the second

0 000.0 z
(“tortured, saw, burned”); next: 2 horiyambas
1 00—/

“he designated the day” and “the night before the city”;

G.

in addition: descending ionic /—— 00/:
3 00 |
“We were a little squeamish”; these forms are special
relief of accents: a number of stops have lost their accents; and
instead of iambic /0—/ we have a foot: 00; we post-
vim in places of point acceleration; Let's connect. points
lines, ‘linking the accelerations of adjacent ‘lines in
rhythm pattern; we get a traffic imagelife
rhythmic accelerations:

’ ,

I
+4 > E |”
Rome
>
would B
A |=.
to
EE
me no.
in z VYA =
>. we yy yy
zyyee3 owls | *
a -
E
I |->
s:
= © z 9
E a IE.
o
BEESHENE Ri
I >
= = I
her and
| E:
r I VV.
ro. Thye aaa &
‹ in
29: 2nd VK - 0 -- M6 yu’
a.
> |= }
ry 5.
5381 651 885 & E
=
oh her oz Yo
|
G
> | ыы | no
=’ - th
U 5

The modulations of the rhythm are graphically precisely drawn;
we have, as it were, a photograph of the main iambic melody.

Sh.
Once upon a time I had to work on rhythms
of our poets: other results from the work give us
.
50

GOR

the ability to analyze the variety of rhythms and’

from the point of view of accelerations (00) of the foot, and from the point
vision of the main figures (or acceleration groups),
connected to each other.

Based on the perception of the rhythm of various
poets, we can say that Pushkin’s rity is separated
comes from the Lomonosovskys, Tyutchevskys, etc.
rhythms; acceleration statistics, acceleration figures
gives a very accurate description of the features
the rhythm of individual poets and schools; we have the opportunity
the accuracy of accurately determining the rhythm of the era on
basis of comparison of rhythmic skeletons;
I once made the corresponding conclusions (in
articles “Experience in characterizing the Russian four-
iambic foot” and “Comparative morphology
rhythm"). *)

I'll share the most basic
this area.

Sum of all accelerations (stop 0 0) in Russian
iambic is significant: in 596 lines it is like that
poets:

observations B

Languages 527 Derzhavin 448
Tyutchev 519 Venediktov 447

Fet 505 Lomonosov 424
Baratynsky 493 Zhukovsky 422

May 492. Vogdanovich 419
Sologub 489 Bryusov 40.
Pushkin 486 Kapnist 377
Lermontov 499 Dmitriev 376 it. d.
Nekrasov 450

The most prominent Russian lyricists tend to
accelerator in iambic**). Characteristic location
accelerations by feet: acceleration of the third foot
most common: among poets of the Pushkin school
their amount is growing.

So; here are the amounts of accelerated costs before-Push-
Kino group of poets:

273, 263, 211, 226, 251, 258, 280, 813,
280 i.e. 200+ accelerated
third stops for a total of 596 lines. U
For poets, starting with Pushkin, these amounts are:
841, 321, 388, 326, 848, 842 etc. d.i.e.
800+ accelerated thirds
STOP.

The number of accelerations falling on the first and
the second foot naturally changes. In two poets,
chesky group.

Here are the acceleration statistics for the 1st and 2nd ones
poets before Batyushkov: and

*) M. Symbolism.

**). Marks the wall of pyorachia (00) as natural
in iambic still Tretyakovsky; Lomonosov denies in theory
it, in practice he uses it,

_a light style of friendly, often ® is born.

No. 5
Acceleration of the 1st foot. Acceleration of the 2nd foot,
Lozhonosov 18,139.
Derzhavin 46 139
Bogdanovich" 24 114
Lakes 54 100
Dmitriev 25 100
Neledinski 86 109
Kapnist 85 112

The acceleration of the 2nd foot here is significantly greater |
increases the acceleration of the 1st II

How do they sound in the rhythm of a whole line of acceleration |
this foot, a little heavy, slow „TsarevVICHUz
to young Flor" or on "my varnished floor"
or “Where a rose WITHOUT thorns grows.”

Stitch type o— 000—0—. 1

The eighteenth century fell in love with heavy

line, with a page of the second reflection of the slower- i.e.
minuet rhythm.

Acceleration statistics on 1st and
the foot of the poets from Pushkin is as follows:

Acceleration of the 1st foot. `Acceleration of the 2nd foot.

on the second |

Pushkin 110 88
Lermontov 101 47
Languages 126 13
Varatinekiy 164 4
Tyutchev 115 62
Fet 139 34 G g
May 128_ 17 ri

about the nineteenth century, together with Pushkin I will take-_ $
beat the acceleration of the new foot, breaking the stirrup,” |
specifically accelerating the second feet, }

Moving acceleration amount ratio |.
almost like a law in Russian. ‘The more acceleration.
on the first foot, the less of them on the second, so
Baratyneky has maximum acceleration in first |
(164) coincides with the minimum acceleration from the second |
(4) he has the same... Maximum acceleration second No.
Lomonosov (139) coincides with the minimum acceleration |.
niya on the first (18). Thni lines © accelerated ||
1st foot: RI

(000—0—o—

How does this line sound, graceful and easy, |
quickly, drawing a gallop; image of this line: “NAIO- |
they pass me by” (Pushkin) “CONNECTIONS about- |
everything” (Baratynsky) “LOUD-boiling ku- |
side from the sky“ (Tyutchev) it, d.

1) ‚

Iambic rhythms of the pre-Push poetsfilm school ri-# |
they put in slowness ‘menudna and the style is lush%
odes of powdered praises to the rulers. In the 20th century

Ultimate messages: the rhythm breaks; line200— |
00/—0— “is replaced by the line 000—/0—0—”; |}
No. 5

GO RR

51

2 centuries, 2 kingdoms (Catherine and Alexandra,
two ways of life rhythmically express themselves in the 19th century
expresses his splendor with PEAON THE SECOND,
The 20th century expresses PEAON THE FOURTH
his particular dress and discarded hundred-
Rhone 2 No. border between Derzhavineka and
Two poets stand as Pushkin’s muse: Zhukovsky and Va-
Tyushkov, What is the amount of acceleration in their iambics?
_ rhenium
‚ _ Acceleration of the 1st foot. Acceleration of the 2nd foot.
„_ Valyushchkov 28 88
UZhukovsky 90 13

Otatistics is eloquent here in the amount of acceleration
_ rhenium; on the first foot stands in the past. poetry
"Batiushkova (with her ancient themes) "28 violins
° corresponds to the sums of the poets" (18, 46, 24, 54,
’ 95, 36, 85) in the sum of the accelerations of the second groan
_ Vatyushkova is a reformer, of course; after all, before. him

and arc sums 189, 139, 114, 100, 100, 109,
G 118 it. d, and the Batyushkov sum is “28” (accelerated
’ tion falls); after him, these amounts are no longer valid.
- rush to the past (33, 47, 13, 4, 24, etc.)
° all of them are below “100”.

BATYUSHKOV IS A POET OF TRANSITIONAL RIT-
MA, so is Zhukovsky: acceleration of the first
‘the feet are equal to the sum “90” before it these sums are 18,
46, 24, 54, 25, 36, 35 etc. etc. and after it
10. 101, 176, 164, 115, 107 it: d. conclusion
° appreciation of the rhythmic decadence of Benediktov’s poetry,
_ gives us atavism (its sum is “59”). Speed up
h. the bends of Zhukovsky’s second foot fall (524 by
` compared with the sums of accelerations on this foot
about Previous ‘poets (189, 139, 114, 100, 100
‚vit. D. Zhukovsky, like Batyushkov,
’ rhythmically prepares for us Push-
kina. {
” ^ This example of looking at statistics is easier
This line proves: armed with accurate data,
and with these we can paint a picture of the rhythmic
The lives of individual poets and schools. We get
_ the ability to cover the subtlest manifestations
_ rhythm; Recently they also said that the rhythm of Pushkil
. differs from the rhythm of Baratynsky's poetry. We
_ statementsWe only make a judgment of TASTE: about the taste

We have the opportunity to put it into a series of formulas. So in
_ this area of criticism, methods of subjective assessment
are replaced by a precise scientific rhythmic apalysis.

“^^ GURS based on the same judgments are opened
> exactly it, |

_ The question arises: what is the relationship of the melodies
_ rhythm to meaningful ‘images of content? And then

> they don’t argue... Now the pasha’s taste judgments.

Aa The connection of rhythmic lines forms FI-

already available by a number of observations and conclusions
meanings, such as: in a number of lines, articulated in small
diy accelerations and unity 2nd foot, contrasting
in the rim of their accelerations with 0 feet of the first and
third accelerated

If we take the lines:

1st foot. 2nd foot. 3rd foot. 4th foot.

0— 0— 00 0— would
= 00 o— 0— 0
9 oh 00 would

Then there is an interruption of acceleration (in this case pa-
giving on the 2nd foot) among the most famous classics
very often coincides with the contrast of their images
For example: ;

Nice to think by the bed
But you know: Shouldn't you tell him to get into the sled?
I'll ban the filly
The rhythmic interruption here coincides with the
rastas of the poet's thoughts (from THE PEACE OF DREAMS AT LEZHAN-
VI TO THE DESIRE TO TRAVEL IN A SLED).

E t
about HER
= - Ma } Vis.
> 5 5: C
my bb
and >
E ii
=. ><
= = 4 AND IN MH
on i.
ah. for
>=on
JA. PE: *s 1
it < a
= => =
= Her
E E
---3
—
t
m NOT
Ta z
oE her and
| o 1
g
go about
> > | No. —— 208 —-]
s I
|=
. 5
a.
Zee Does
oh goy
+
aaa, No. t
OA a
[1 <>

h
Here the rhythmic transition is accompanied by a transition
move from the image of heaven to the earthly sounds of rumble,
When combining lines with acceleration of the first and
the third foot we have is usually sequential
(not contrast). to
BURN.

52

This is an observation drawn from the abstract

figures of rhythm to the rhythm of images of content from
the most famous lyricists. But observation of the rhythm
my poetry of Pushkin: an abundance of reproaches (00) U

Pushkin often gathers where they are described

emotional experiences; where is the pictorial painting?

there is often a drop in acceleration.

00 yy
00 and
-o -o

"vm ek9x)

_ —

00
00

dizioyg dya u va m
300 imu “‘Konova Inc.

- ‘oneykh # ibnogo 1982 ranks by 4 |

`‘a&aua ikvtoeya ino 109And

this ata you 11401004

24414) *‘I100994 new

Vokioamachat zone and

nouaN IOSCHOV iinol MV
ennegiya ZoNekoki Um
ng choweiayu nonkotchachi

“zome,

"backiCh yen

21091410 `ofokiya: tsEG kokch204.

>

[2

in

—.

EE

TN Ak.

- „

= -o
ыы -50
2—5

= -0
|=

her

I -
= -

E

—“

ahh

2 a RR
- s

>
=

_ 00

00
_00
_ 00

.00
00

ve

_>t$>
en
bb:
7 hours of 8 © E
r aka. ©
t Zita and _ 5=8
=>
` nae NOO iz0ee EVE
Juices NOTHING rank) s =
“char voviyeee Aeike E sya E.
odnyaenkh I `IEOvlyun in) g Z a
> ::
chE2190 OTAN @9. chi Mod -> E |
thenH Arozchon 40a I B _ I
> 8
aag

00. ‘veago NOMOCHZCHOEYAN-IN
00 enolo OLOCHOaBoYaokYaYa IN
00 neo in ‘UNUeIN
00 mnochne IN Iznozeesyaa IN

:fakie ep9

00 _ omez@moto YAM
00 avpn@yao whose mpichogoi I

ыы Е

tch
a.

t
o

E

And No. 5 MOUNTAIN. 53
= tre
“This is the rhythm of the first part or Ruslan’s experience.
2 8 4 OX Yes, AA E.
o 00 oo r
0 - 00 in - sucked out
0o— 00 -o--o
00 and ©— |
E > 2 1te>
0— 2009 0—0 5221118132221
o— (00 o— s
Ayu ‚’ Ga
"eo (==)
— 00 AKI m a
at 00 0—0
G o— o—[ 00 0— y -
me ze. — | > 1
y 00 з © |] ех>з 1
IV 0 0-—- 0
E. th =
’ The melody of accelerations is rich, covering a number of strings
c." then the phytmic leitmodif of the experiences of love, = NR OYAEEEVEFYA
Xia is predetermined by the parrihiy (00), but the rhythm is avle-yy A A N E y V a
_ howled Chernomor *). , meaning Ea
IYA 8 4 ra VYYD 2
ыы —& } 2 = =
‚0 ooo yesa < E ey
0— 0— ony, to EyYa
yy about REN SEE
+ bottom c- E |= a
c. sword strike, acceleration, but instead of them - =
” deceleration instead of stotz „— —“ (“THUNDER } I - I -
‚about RYarai, and at "Leitmotif. Black- |: Zo Eta E. E t
o mara is built on explicit spondiums. Of these, 5 E =
example, it becomes clear that the RHYTHM is harmonious
respects the content; based on observations © for- -
mine; We are groping here for the point where the form changes.
repents © toyu tolzhey ang which neo- EV 8 E V ‚ZORI 23:
conscious, oh poet; we are here, in fact, studying
o serr NEY NAY SO Vann EVA ZHA

_ tea Not ‘irthm’, but temperature. and body bullet
we can judge the movements of the organs
by ‘ritiu we can’ judge the insanity

POEM,

Ken bloodycola hanye

pale blue. heaven

Their silver dollars shine

cold and oblique rays.

strength poisons. dimensional step

And the severity of pale gray faces

And at an incredible height

The hum of iron birds,

"Not celebration, not rejoicing

"Death is a bubbling delight,
There is a cold consciousness in everything
The great immutable dollar.

*) Circles indicate the place of the spondee.

The first line describes to us ‘the swaying of a sign’
men; all four lines reveal the melody of the rhythm;
it lies in the fact that the line carries accelerated

tion (00) or in other words one of the two feet.

the lines form PE0N; in the first three acceleration

passes by IEON FOURTH, the fourth counter- —

stiruetsya slowing down by PEAON THE SECOND
0—0—/000—o r

— 0— /000—
0o—0—1000—o and
o—00/0—o—

Here is the contrast that I said above;

what does it correspond to? In the first lines everything is

The reader's obsession is focused on the banners; poet

he draws them, firstly, on the pale, snowy skies -
sah, and secondly, he paints the sparkle of silver
words on the banners, the fourth line describes
creates banners in a new way, drawing them in the rays of the
shining sun; the reader's attention is transferred from
banners to illuminate the setting sun; the poet opens
turns away from the banners and turns his gaze to the rays,
54th

Re Na No. 5

in the sun, change of attention: corresponds to re-
fight in the rhythm line: from “tata-tata-tata-tala, to

_ “tata-tata-tata-tata”.

Their words are silver vigils
In cold and oblique rays.

The second line opens with a manifestation, (but
new image), the poet is distracted from the banners, a new image
it occupies him and the rhythm changes; CLEAR lines
METERS pass:

0— 0— 0о— 0—0
0 0-0 —

What should the strict lines of “RANKS” express?
COLLECTED STEP SIZE AND Strictness
OF GLAY GRAY FACES" They express that very thing
rhythm. We have a connection between the image of rhythm and meter
in a special way of content: RHYTHMIC META-
FORA, similar to the sound formation, is the third here
the line introduces the image: INCREDIBLE HEAVENLY
HIGH, the poet's gaze from the roof is quickly transferred
into the distance of the sky, an instant transfer of attention from 0-
corresponds to: MAXIMUMACCELERATION OF THE RHYTHM

-and 0be DIPODIUM iambic take a distinct shape

PEAON THE FOURTH (000—).

000—000—(0).

` (the line “AND IN INCREDIBLE HEIGHT” is
such a structure. But in the airiness of the sky, it seemed
it would be impossible to hear the hum of IRON, it is heard
“THE HUMM OF THE GREAT BIRDS” and a new con-
trust ‘is created: behind the line of the fourth pzones of medical

° the line with the second peon follows literally (0 00)

000—000—0_

0 —000—0—

976
And at an incredible height
The hum of iron birds.

The third line introduces new content: connection
understands all the images (rad banners, rays of the sun, crowd,
the sound and hum of airplanes); their synchronization occurs
t6z; and the conclusion is born in the poet’s soul.
Not a celebration, not a rejoicing |
Delight not bubbling with laughter,

There is a cold consciousness in everything
Great immutable duty.

It is characteristic that here in the final lines-
all the main themes of the figures pass through; throwing
looking at the figures, we see that in the first stanza
drawn:

1 2 8 4.

The main figure of the second stanza forms a titanic
no. form.

1 2 8 E

The third is a combination of the rhythm of the first line with
previous line second. draws stanzas for us
graphically the same figure in reverse order.

HUMMING of useful birds
CELEBRATION IS NOT JOYALTY,

More than four sentences of conclusion repeat the game
physically the rhythm of the first shots. ®
Not a triumph, NO JOY
Not with laughter. ROLLING delight,

In everything, cold consciousness
A great, irrevocable duty.

If we were to abbreviately set the task, how
express the thought of the conclusion with rhythm, then it would take a long time
we sat around this question fruitlessly; is a poet
creatively, without resorting to reason, allows us
this task: here is its conclusion: the synthesis of images should
rhythmic cells will be depicted’” using the synthesis of elements
Ritja figures; AND THIS SYNTHESIS IS GIVEN TO US.

Riti excerpt, accompanying us with images of meaning
becomes here a rhythmic gesture already water-
neighing. Analyzing the best passages from Klassenki,

Everywhere we are faced with the fact: they have THE RHYTHM THEMSELVES *

UVWOT CONTENTS.
We conclude from here: firstly, what is being analyzed |
N. Poletaev's poetry is impeccable in rhythm
meh, and secondly, formallyed elements in poetry
inseparable from the images of the content, strikingly
it’s in the eyes when we get the opportunity to ana- _
to lyse exactly the RHYTHMIC LOTS of poets.

Andrey <. 34th

divides

"IT
You

oh me +

The proletariat is collective in essence: In Ka-
nutritional production, with colossal
ree of labor, in its diverse qualifications
eo all the prerequisites for collective
visism of the proletariat. New factories
_ among hundreds, thousands of machines, grow, overcome
_ washing the spaces of the seas Oksana pas-
° rokhodov, air-turning devices, huge
- high-tech machines that replace the labor of dozens,
hundreds of thousands of people. And the weight they are the result of
a tatome of the smallest forces collected together
individual worker. Every comrade knows that

his individual efforts, his personal | ud nothing
without the labor of others, which is only in connection ©
through the labor of many comrades his strength is capable

conquer the elements of the seas, the sky-high spaces
stavva, to break into the hearts of the earth. Being is determined
says myilenio. Therefore, the ideology of the flight:
° riata but may not be collective. Related-
_ economic and production process
dependence, equally pressing on all proletarians,

° written sllu - collective. This force penetrates
with a single thought of class struggle,
about the highest expression of which we have in our
_ the great slogan “Proletarians of all countries unite
_ wither.

_ The prodetariat grew up in the fight against capitalism,
the organization of proletarian forces aimed at
to itself the task of struggle ® capitalist-.
chesky exploitation. o The struggle was divided
° ma two channels of economic and political
” struggle. In this struggle, the proletariat contributed
o >. directives in calitasietic relationships,
_ species in particular in their favor. This
’ preparing and transition from quantity to quantity
_honesty, revolution was being prepared, collapse
aa capitalist world,

And the whole struggle of the proletariat sat down in pre-revolutionary

° the revolutionary era and in the era of the first steps of re-
’_ revolution resulted in the destruction of capitalism

ical world in all its ramifications, then in

4

‹

Oh kcollective creativity,

solders the proletarian masses into a single organ-.

further development of the proletarian social

stic revolution brings to the fore
The task of the socialist is being addressed. construction -
in the field of economics, politics, culture,

The October Revolution opened up a wide
the way to the creative “aspirations” of the proletarians
strength The proletariat is pawning. first stones
the foundation of socialism.

In the process of building an economic and
political life, & also in construction,
culture on ‘new socialist foundations’
with full force and’ boundless depravity deployed
You're collective creativity

„ Okih May Pir ery

cialist construction ‘disintegrates’
into a number of separate halls connected by a single thought
Denmark, which falls on individual teas
proletarian collective. ‘This obliges
Lelariat, as a class in general and of every prod-
ria in particular to present with all clarity
66° your task in all the smallest detail
ties. What to build; how to build, according to
implement practical everyday ‘work with spices’
pima socialiema, so that in the crab hobby
sometimes you can’t get away from the plan’ and the principle
pov of the completed whole. - these are the basic questions
Must not suck’ to stand in front of every 13
each one of us, in the same way as the house of our practice
tical work. One of these questions and
is the question of collective ‘creativity’.

In the field of construction of the proletarian cul-
tours question of collective creativity, far
deprived of the clarity that makes it possible
firm and confident movement. Uncertainty about
millet gives rise to a lot of misunderstandings, fraught
ted by large and dangerous onts. In practice
technical work, in the construction of proletarekogu
theater, in literary and other studios, where e.
the question of collective creativity is
push each other at every step, mingle
Lva concept: 44660806 AND KOOLYajumtivnoe creativity
This stems from the fact that in the question ©
in collective ‘creativity there is no laziness, no pre-
talker, there is no analysis, this concept is on
56

No. 5

OSon the basis of which we could say with confidence
new certainty. This is collective, &
this is individual.

‚ In this article, which but pretends to be completely
We would like to resolve the issue by analysis
Lisa to come to the most correct understanding -
exploring the issue of collective creativity.

' %
#*
I E

We believe that the analysis of the concept of “collectivization”
10° creativity" should proceed in two directions.
uninstallations: [

It is necessary, firstly, to distinguish the concept

‚ collectivism on two main lines,

1) Collectivism of consciousness;

2) Collectivism of creativity as material
We are going to the next incarnation; |

and, secondly, to identify the differences in concepts
individual and individualistic, which
ry ‘very often get tangled, despite half-
new, it would seem, clarity of its content.

From the mixture of the first two main lines
a network is created, c. which gets confused: the question,

The capitalist mode of production has created
a number of conditions that foster their individualism, ne
developing individuals in a mass community
masttabe.

The capitalist system had and has a genius
nal and first-class masters, all. area
life. A whole range of ideas, ideas, forms of
took their name from the individual name
their creators, were they in the full sense of the
visual discoveries of invention or obebin-
nib in new forms” of pre-existing
achievements,\

In all achievements of technology, art:
scientist. always looked for the “red thread”, iden, in-
He lived by the Torah and revealed it in his own. creature-
honor. We know the names, Roland, Meigne in the school-
tour, Ibsen. Maeterlinck, Gamehuia, Anlrozwa in
literature, Levyatan, Somov, Kuizlzhkh in live
pussy, Kachalov, Gordon, Craig, Stalislavek
and that. in the theater, etc. d.it. H.

Each of these masters of the brush. myvtu. words,
technology has its own physiognomy. It displays
the world and life as his in-
livual consciousness, which considers it
free *). However, these artists can select.
reap In your creativity there is a koslektivism of action.
Take Verhaeren, © his artus mass
actions "Insurrection", "Tribune", etc., Whitmon,

in ‘This “summary” of their individuality is ana-

logical to the freedom of the photographic plate
displaying any object.

6 his great “world brotherhood of nations.” But
Will this be a collective effort? To the region:
there is no creation——because it is a reflection
the introduction of collectivism through individual socialization
knowledge in the field of technology because the sole
creative work, and in the field of science and technology
NIKI,
Intellectual, as knowledge and as creativity
Chinese mechanical process is here for
Werhaeren and Whitman only by watching them:
Dony, their creativity in general. :
On the other hand (in the technical field, this is
is revealed with greater clarity), we observe
dazm reverse process. The workers for the most part
they create a machine, an ocean steamer.  Uni-
personal efforts of each individual worker 1:0
ties him up with others, does not have any valuable

sti. But their mass creativity reveals in ma

terial form individual thought, in-_
individual creativity.

Can this process be called creative?
collective? Not either. Here we have you-
change through mass efforts of individual
new idea, individual thought. In consciousness
In the idea, creativity in this case is not vol-
TIVNO.

The basis of collaborative creativity is
for us, first of all, collective creativity
ideas, thoughts, development of collective unity
consciousness, which determines the identification of this
ion in material forms. o

Let's explain this with an example. We have ten _

car. Each of them has some
or special qualities that highlight this from.
yelled at others. Motor design: one car has

The car's engine is on, but not capable of developing
great speed, the other has it back. The third _
combustion economy brought to perfection |

of combustible material. The fourth has an ideal
but ‘Ibbtroena is elastic in movement. Everyone"
The motor is unique in its own way. And everyone
it is patented. The latter is dictated by the intero,

themselves of capalistic competition.  Pobui® z.
his Tonkurenta’ technically more form-

my, not’ Laval, he has the right to use his senses
Let's go technical, that's what it comes down to: “be more creative”
"stivity" of the capitalist world.  Drop the ®_
side of the issue of competition and you will evade that
necessary in order to turn negative
by” to the positive.

We fly to ourselves that engineers and aunt
do not turn their individual projects into
material forms; & in a competition of your ideas,
small, collective › develop the ideal
car type. On this mania. I will have

`

$

5№

R o.

57.

“Neither its inventor, it dissolves in a collective
Surely there will be practical implementation of it. tavzho
’° collective. We must make such an amendment
°— of our production of transitional social-
some time. Our engineers have a lot
you'll have to work on yourself to understand
I appreciate the deepest value of such principles
technical creativity. Therefore collective
creativity Basically, there is, before. in total,
= collective creativity of thoughts, ideas, identification
’ cc in formulas, provisions, logical
in: buildings, whether in the field of technology, science or
‚. art. This is the basis of collectivism in your
> _ honor.
But besides this, ideas get their expression.”
knowledge in material forms, technical, in
In the form of cars, buildings, art———in prose—
_ Ch6 and poetic works, to the theater,
in carvings, sculpture, etc.
AE" When addressing the issue of collectivism,
This moment is mainly
if not exclusively, and is taken into account
tion and there are debates and discussions around it.
Either on the street during the October holiday,
_ this is a collective creativity, the production of “Bo2-

__ stavia” of today’s Prolotkult’ too.. Ideas <“s-
to briosti", mass creativity, ilei "creative

at some theater." Perzhentseva and the theater on the street
G ’Vamensky, also referred to as Kollektivtyumt
‚creativity. In all these’ judgments and disputes

+
the concepts /acc0voe` and

_ collective. And the whole point is that we need a report
_ it’s amazing to explain to yourself and understand that massive
- creativitynot' sigh collectively but being m
t. ‚m: ‚inkhivhuatyNO sem ne always can

^ Let's get to the question specifically I `stopped
_ in the theater, because here most of all arises
° prbs 6 collective creativity; ah, investigator
but it's more confusing.

%f
*

vegetable content and collovimine
creativity, ‘here are the foundations of the proletarian theater.
This is how the proletarian theater understands its task.
ral studios’ and to the best of our ability and understanding,
_ approach the solution.

The first question that arises before the
“Live in the studio,” it’s a question of repertoire.
A. _ Revolutionary pieces expressing class
5, about the struggle, plays imbued with collective
- the ear of the proletariat class in our repertoire
not yet. You have to use an old drill
u23noe is hereditary. Select from repertoire"

individual works imbued with 'revolutionary
tion content (Schiller) or the opening of the
tsial dramas like “Death of Hope”, etc.
stage Verhaeren, stage a satire on the ‘bur
zhuaz world; "Miracle of St. Anthony."

This whole ‘repertoire cannot be named
collectivist in its content.
Is this revolutionary or revolutionary 'romance'
ical renertoire.

Verharn and Gastev stand somewhat apart
in the dramatization of their poems (we’ll talk about pikh’my
06060).

And they don’t move beyond this, as if
10 about the repertoire is limited by these. `Dal-
She's coming. question of ‘statement. The director gives
plan; reveal in it the basis of the play, the collective
This action is purely external, technical.
if the play’ gives the opportunity to show on stage
not a crowd, a mass in which the food is dissolved"
personal actor; 10 task of the collective ‘be more creative= ›
tsva seems to be resolved. Vak as if poured
collective creativity. With this understanding,
all creativity, no matter how small,
a slightly serious troupe, collectively. Hora-
piy ensemble, solid ‹<play of actors,
after all, also of all kinds. dissolution of personality ac-
tera in a team-troupe. But this is abeolutpa. .
a false understanding of codective creativity.
Truly collective creativity. beginningyes
much earlier than the play gets on stage.

`Terrativity. repertoire, not in. sense. scriptures
new plays, and c. sense of their selection, even if
from. bourgeois. inheritance, interpretation of plays, other
% Speaking, the way of their interpretation and the form of the post-

. NOVVI, defined by this interpretation, is

already material for collective creativity.

`How important can the selection of plays be? This is not

Mechanical search for a “suitable” pie-
‹ly for the repertoire. prolotalkogo body. In that
com selection of notes and there can be no trade-
quality. Work pp. repertoire, name-
Timo is deeper and more serious

But how many examples. And such a classic
choskuschssu in the repertoire of the Russian theater, as
"Renizor" by Gogol. A lot of actors were looking for forms, in
which could be revealed hidden in “Re
visor" behind, "visible laughter" "invisible mi-
ru tears”, exactly what was and should have been
to be, according to Gopol’s plan, “the main action
deprived" in "The Inspector General".

Nal “The Inspector” ‘one couldn’t dare answer: “Chat
Who are you fucking with? Fuck you laughing at yourself!” It's time to cry'
nah that vulgarity and abomination revealed”
in 1p5eee, there is a real picture of our country
that time yes n naleego, shook.
. going beyond

58 HORN.

``№5

I ask the question: why now “The Inspector General”
cannot be pure satire. Satire, caught
causing you to laugh and despise that life, then"
structure of thoughts that are revealed in immortal passages-=
characters from The Inspector General, and not cry over what
life is vile and “the Russian reality is vile”
ness",

No exaggeration, no farcical approach, no

positively bosemertal
text, "The Inspector General" will become the greatest satire,
which will force you not to look for “invisible tears”, but
will reveal in the viewer’s soul all the inherent
dignity of a human citizen. Put "Inspector".
Voluntary thought of the proletarian theater here"
a wide field opens up. Find your deepest joke
strength of the satirical play, to reveal it to its fundamental
depths—and “The Inspector General” will become a bright decoration
tion of the proletarian satirical, if you like,
theater
_ Take “The Life of Man.” Heroine: Wife
man wanders the streets anddreams of finding someone
a silk with money to feed her husband; country
gives. The viewer can and should feel sorry for her and 6
horror to think: “Rock!” the wallet is nowhere to be found
lie and the person will be hungry!!”

And we think: wallets are not lost in
cially so that they can be found at will
fate is the wives of men, & if they are lost, then only
by accident or roguery. Choose a job
we are looking for a wallet lost on the street,
a wasteful waste of time. In the first
case interpretation of the play, listener's summary -

. the viewer will say: “poor thing”, in the second - “gross!”
To the apartment of a Man in the absence of access - ^

people come and bring him flowers and wine. This
to the hungry one! And they feel sorry for him, they feel sorry for him. Can
be, something be stupider than this, something more
more deceitful and lifeless. And such people
there are no people either, they are smarter®, and angrier, and dust-
TINY.

Show on stage the languor of Man, revealing®
all this and you get tough, searing satire
to the bourgeois world. Take it from that same Andrei-
va: “Love your neighbor” and you will find the same
grateful stuff. But just let the collection
creative proletarian thought gives its
attention, direct, healthy, to which
inherently calmly creative and always unflinching
to a satirical attitude towards life,

Let every student take on the task
think about the bourgeois inheritance, prin?-
set what he finds there, in the collective, on the mountain
nile of his Thoughts. Let the studio as a whole be subjected to
no, this play is ‹ perfect.

This is how we think about the approach to collective ‘creativity’
honor of the repertoire.

That's not all,

Suppose we found a play © revolutionary
tional content, it contains mass
scenes. This play will undoubtedly be recognized
suitable for the proletarian theater. Ve post-
wat and it will be taken into account as a collective
creativity. Because the play is revolutionary, it contains
mass, and especially collective scenes, staged
on the stage of the proletarian theater, played
by proletarian authors, everything that is necessary,
it seems obvious. But can we say that
this play really isproduct colaech-
creative creativity?

Perhaps not. Why? Same again
a question of understanding heaven. Sollogub was asked ›
what he thought; when I wrote them. The answer was you
characteristic to a high degree. Sollogub beer m2
thought. and didn't want to say. "Navi's charms", and
created them unconsciously, if you like. Question
how to’ understand “Navia Charms” he always-
the whole provided you read. So the question is
“Nimanlya plays are again” a question of creativity, -
stva. And hence the staging of the revolutionary play
you, with crowd scenes, if oops will be
stavlepa individually. director, maybe from
forged them so that... everything that the play says!
0 team, all of it as a whole will receive individual
hual rezcheser's tokening. And prl-isol-
zones of plays collectively by artists-proleta-.
rilmi, the play bulet is too far from the truth =
leg. collective | creativity. True, maybe
be p-back. The director is right. © dot
preletarian point of view, will understand, will explain the auto-
ram will stage the play, but... this case is not good
but it seems to justify such an approach in

Nulop is a collective director and’ such
should be the studio as a whole. ,

People will object to this, that if
troupe in pslom, bulet director, then technical theater
It will turn out to be nonsense. There will be so much forehead
lei, pike and crayfish. how many cabins? Rezhiesyat
must be olin. This kind of objection is obvious

° also show poor understanding of India’ |

visual and individualistic. fo

The director is individual, every actor is so
same—in what relation do they stand ® collect-
creative creativity?

Akler goes on stage to read poetry,
Will this creativity be collective? This one
the question seems absurd, We answer: yes, we can-
can be collective. And not according to Guy,” who
considers a person to be a collective of cells, and does not
2

y:

a
$,
1

“.
ry No.

=.
$

ke,

at

No. 5

RER

59

understanding of the collective as a mass, but almost
mu. In the literary studio "Prolotkult"
proletarian poets and prose writers, at collective
meetings they read their poems, where they are subjected to
melting criticism sunher studio. Criticize
means to understand the idea and appreciate the form. Criti-
The studio's comments are corrected and
they give the author the idea of his work
‚and to some extent this is so, since the idea of production
guidance receives the greatest clarity, oh
this entails both deepening and
clarification of the very form of the work. From the point-
from the point of view of “free” art, this is
violence against the author, his thought and his intuition
open world. For us this is the
a stone that gives support to the proletarian creator.
Theater studio, having its own repertoire for
eetrad, passes him through the crucible of his
collective. consciousness and actor reading
etihi © stage, will be individually expressed
the bearer of a collective idea, a collective TVFR-
quality. b

Therefore, for us, individual execution
is not always and under all conditions negative
thick, size. We don't confuse the concept
individual and individualistic, which
This is how bourgeois criticism often strikes.

In the field of collective creativity, we focus
We base the creativity of collective consciousness
and we believe that creativity, as created
collective consciousness into material forms,
sel derivative from the first, based on it
right now.

Therefore we are too far from
consider collective mass. Weight used
there is no team on stage, ‘if she
is not imbued with a single collective consciousness about
what she performs. And at the same time; in=
the actor's individual creativity is not for
us anti-collective. We base our
attention to collective creativity not on external
in his own words, Not in quantitative terms
teriah (mass, crowd is not yet a collective), but pa
deep internal premises, on the collective
creative creative consciousness of the proletarian masses

“In all planes of creativity, in all egos,

measurable variety. .

This approach to the issue places the burden on everyone
The studio worker has big tasks. Many of them are
melt themselves into creators, being only executable -
lyami. And they, more than anyone else, need
developgive in the will to creativity. Winning
technical difficulties, conquering the stage, they
are still on foreign soil and will be
walk on it until they wash
will be the main driver of their work. Developing
©your collective consciousness, creating it in the studio
in everyday work, they will follow the path l9-
gically inevitable modification of the form of creative
technical achievements that will be higher |
the deeper and more acute the collective consciousness |
studio, the higher the number the will to independence
no matter how creative

V. Pletnev.

Go vv,

No. 5

‚ Techniques of stage influence on the viewer. V. b
Chekhov's plays.

1 y

‘It has become a commonplace statement. that Chekhov

The playwright was discovered by My Eternal Art.

'theater. For those who doubt, it is enough to point to
the fate of "The Seagull" at the Alokeandrinsky Theater Izu
Muscovites. Thus, the ‘merit of the theater’ Sta-

’ neelavekogo beseporna. But in my achievements

the theater came from Chekhov’s play: from their Text, from
koiteketa. from. remarks from what is written
lines and from that; what is between the lines,
' Therefore, along with .6 analysis and evaluation of paths n
techniques. achievements of the Moscow Art Institute

- nogo Tzatr, should be subjected to analysis. image
‚ striking and. affecting. tsehihiku

see-

_ calf. elements of the plays themselves. At least try

in a small part to complete this task. necessary. smo-

” third on the following lines.

t etc

Have you experienced the emotional power of music?
Music sets you up emotionally even in those

_ cases when our life runs calmly through

‘solid track, without shocks. without sudden movements
mouths The heart shrinks and aches sadly

sweet melancholy, thoughts are carried away from the sounds in the

_ what is close to the world; close ones become more

loved ones, concerns, if any; become
more serious. These are the results of intimate

_ music: piano, violin, cello, guitar. B
_ in the same cases when we use gunpowder
_ the faceted face of his formidable and terrible life
› Meanwhile, the power of music over us increases, and

r

at
5

‚even takle primative tools like ba-
 Lalaika or harmonica are then capable of deepening
the emotional area of our psyche. Chekhov

used to play music. as a welcome
influence from the viewer: all his plays go to
_ musical accompaniment. 910 statement =

_ should be taken literally, because the tasks can

_ Chekhov pursued declamations, °but only

to create an appropriate emotional -

background. Dahl doesn't need this; so that there is music’
solid;. enough. so that it only sounds

but at times, leaving an echo, like a freeze-

on a string; The rhythmic prose that is spoken”—
Chekhov's heroes, especially when they are thirsty
love, or dream about the future, increases mu-
ringing bo. n. sings a speech

person, 1 ыы А,
“Ivanov” begins with music, VR follows
when you hear the curtain, you can hear the kaz in the house, learning |

blows on: piano and cello": With these sounds
color the sad situation of the heroes,
Roy spectator © of the first act gets acquainted:
consumptive wife. neurotic husband in whom

The “remnants of love in” the wife cling in vain to 28-

moose in a dying woman, ridiculous faces’

gom..: When in the 2nd act Ivanov, having forgotten. times
simple tact towards a sick person,
runs out of the house to relax, sadness and sadness alone -
the qualities of the remaining Anna Potrovna are emphasized -
wailing with the distant sounds of a harmonica; "Here

to "

the coachmen and cooks are giving themselves a ball, and I... I, like -

abandoned "... In the fourth act _ 2 She-^
Trovna has already died; in Toth's apartment
Vyateya for Ivanov’s wedding with Sasha; festive

decoration; "during the continuation of its action

her

guests come to the house dressed for a ballroom”; stolt
a piano, a violin on it, a cello standing next to it,
No one played the piano or the cello.
barks, but one sight of them revives the heard sounds
cl, deepens gloomy forebodings and regrets
| deceased, And when Shabelsky leaned on
piano, sobs and says: “I looked. chaz
I remembered this viola and... and the Jewish girl...

we played duets with her, wonderful, excellent

° woman." The viewer experiencessatisfaction
because that’s his feeling too.

In “Three Compassions”—in the first act, dreams

Euster about Moscow and Tuzenbach's dreams ©. Vershini- —
about the future. quietly screaming—Masha svi

No. 5

here, Tuzenbach on the piano and Andrey from another
the rooms are creaking”, At the beginning of the second act
‘behind the stage, you can barely hear it on the street ‘they are playing
harmonics." “In the middle of the act, the words of love
Shinin and Tuzenbach musically conclude Fe-
Dotik and Roda, who appear in the joint venture, are quiet
they're playing the guitar." "Touched
- conversation in Vershinin and Iriya, Tuzenbach,

} will say, among other things: “today I’ll have to
` play the piano at night, probably play
all nonsense." “Coming”—in that sense. what
this’ necessity of addressing E musical
This instrument is caused by a spiritual mood.
With these words Tuzenbach discovers the fart
the audience conveys the emotional perspective _
understanding, thereby making ‘him’ more easily understood and
at the present moment, for the present includes
yourself and the past and ‘future.
’ Further, in a fit of psychic 10th, Tuzenbach,
>’ Andrey and Chebutykin “DANCE and sing: “Oh you
\they are my canopy.” At the end of the act, when the vulgarity is in
" cleaner Nalyosha says to poor people sv09 "no-
I”, and those who did not wait for the mummers, the guests of the district walk-

Xia, “You can hear the booger singing.” Yearning o.

Moscow Irina is echoed by a harmonica on the street.

but the alarm. Veshdinin and Mala for expression
_ milestones "omomnal nuances are not resorted to ©lo-
wu, AE to the skeleton of music, to the rhythm, colored. re-

me readable ‘sound zhkr last act, boiler, carried
almost going to leave,

“addressing words of reconciliation” ® Soleny,

The third act takes place on an eerie soundstage.

BURN. t

No. aching feeling”
" - the fastening is enhanced by playing the piano. "M›-
"By the Virgins", the play of wandering musicians on
a skriike and; 7 8 subsiding (Chitsei 00) sounds”
1

removing the orchestra. It is interesting to note that
’ Of the active persons, the majority play on something
something—Rode on guitar, Masha and Tuzenbach on

`rit: “soul ^”0I, like an expensive piano that
_ perth and the key is lost.” YOU’ In the first act of “Uncle Vanya” - = “on one
a guitar comes out of the benches.” On this guitar, last
Voinitsky’s bile speeches, when did the conversation ‘and?-
”_ cleverly breaks off when’ the characters but-
_ | 96th - and she doesn’t want to talk, she’s playing a polka and barely-
fied Waffle, naturally. filling the awkward’ pau-
zu. When, at the end of the action, Elela Andreevna
interrupts the unpleasantness of War’s announcements
_ about Nitsky and goes into the house; Telegin hits! along the strings
And again he plays the polka: The second act begins,
one could say musical noise
’ with the sound of the watchman’s mallet. Pause. boring re-
Branca of the unfortunate Elena Andrevna © husband
’ fills the mood with the watchman’s knock and his song.

-.

ty r

piano, Andrey on the violin. Irina says goodbye to herself

61

dy E EO y

Siena Tanda Astrov accompanied by guitar
Telegina is well known from Masterek
performance by Stanislavsky. In the same village Solya,
wanting to tell Astrov that he is wonderful, he said
Rit: “You are graceful, you have such a gentle voice,” B
At the end of the #th act, the reconciliation of Barely occurs.
we Andreevna ©-Sonya and just like Tuzen =
Bang I'm going to lose the whole night and Elena
Andreevna is looking for additions and permission to her
feeling in music: “I haven’t played for a long time, I say-
she says, “Bulu play and ‘naakat, kah fool.” Thursday
The first action has a characteristic remark about
beginning: silence. Weli this requirement was necessary’
enter specially into the remark, then one thinks, ‘it
introduced with the expectation of a negative impact,

if I may put it this way, in musical terms.

acceptance of missing sound.

After noisy events, in the whirlpool of which
both Gobti and permanent residents were captured,
Sonya and Voinitsky are left alone. Loneliness and
Waffle emphasizes the silence with quiet strumming
strings And the string and the beater of the watchman shenaut
a quiet requiem for a personal echaetyu shadow and

conceal an auxiliary future, “when all the evil on earth-”_

No, all our suffering will be drowned in mercy,
which will replenish the whole world."

There are no musical techniques in “The Seagull”
influence, but at the beginning of the fourth act there are

sound effects: “Wow, the trees are making noise”

and the wind howls in the chimneys, the watchman knocks.” Mozheg
maybe these superstitious sounds are preparing

"'Treplev's death; in any case, they should

It's creepy to set up and create a feeling of creepiness.

expectations. Besides, I ve. rooms Mature
the lion plays the melancholic Waltz at Val An-
Dreevna explains: “plays, it means

t |"
° “In the Cherry Orchard, when ro and

mine from Paris Anya and Lyubov Andrezvna racema-.—

joyfully rubbing the walls of their house like children,

the birds are singing, under. morning in the garden. At the beginning of the 2nd day -
Epikhodov plays the guitar, everyone is sitting 34- —

thought." And to the sounds of the guitar. adjacent tra-

gical words of Charlotte, who does not remember her kinship:
“I don’t have a real passport, I don’t know

how old am I, and it still seems to me that I can...
thin... "And where am I from and I don’t know... No-_

what not. I know. I really want to talk, & don’t ©
who... I don’t have anything.” And give it to him for

Charlottes are those who are seen with her every now and then (Epya-o"

hodov and Yasha) ‘and drip: “these sing terribly

people and... yikes, like jackals.” :

When Lyubov Andreevna remembers ‘about’ her _

Prielom: running away from her husband, traveling abroad -

face down, a particle of this piercing sound sounds from afar—
Jewish Orchestra. “This is our famous ev-_
Russian orchestra, says Gaev to the servant

and
62

Lyubov Andreevna. Remember, four
flute and double bass."

After Trofimov’s wonderful monologue 0
death, about the future of humanity, about insignificance
modern intelligentsia “sitting and thinking”
foxed Silence. All you can hear is the quiet muttering of
even (only the sound coloring is important}
Fire. Suddenly a distant sound is heard, as if
into the sky, the sound of a broken string, a fading song
initial". And Firs immediately explains it,
paralleling other sounds: “Before the misfortune”
the food was the same: the owl screamed and the samovar hummed
no matter what to do." This. misfortune - baby's collapse
naive faith, the cult of personal happiness, not selfish
stic, but egocentric. The sound of a burst
strings are not afraid of Trofimov, who confesses
another symbol of faith and calling to break. is ith-
personal attachments: “If you have the keys
from the farm, then throw them into the well and leave.
Be as free as the wind."

The third act - the ball - begins with sounds
in the Vreisky orchestra, the same one about which
breaks into the second Akle. And its sounds and dances
may be drowned out by the growing ‘anxiety about the cherry-
new garden, the fate of which may already be changing
Shilaee. Nobody actually believes in goodness anymore
successful outcome and are just trying to forget, not
want to face the truth.

Returning from the auction and triumphant
Lopakhin, the new owner of Vitinev Garden, star
nit with the keys that Lyubov Andreevna threw
and shouts: “play music.” And the music plays in
while Lyubov Andrezvna. sinking onto
chair, crying bitterly.

"After everyone leaves the living room and
there remains only one bitterly crying Lyubov Andreev -
on, Chekhov has a remark “the mu-
language."

To the quiet accompaniment of the act of cumming
Anya’s dreams of a better future: “We
we are building a new garden, ‘more luxurious than this, you will see it,

skrills,

you will understand the joy, the quiet, deep joy of op-.

falls on your soul like the sun in the evening hour and
`you will smile, mom.'

The choice of images corresponding to
to their accompaniment: quiet joy will descend -
`` on the soul, like the sun in the evening, quiet
_ wave, in tea, when everything calms down.

In the last act there are only musical
noises, but no less expressive than music.
In the moments of parting © native ashes,
“You can hear axes knocking on wood in the distance,”
they are already cutting down the Vishyaev Garden for dachas and blows
on wood are perceived as blows to the living
body. G ">.

Go:

No. 5

When everyone is gone, the sadness of leaving is emphasized
Chekhov's sound of locked keys. "Scene
empty. You can hear everyone locking themselves with a key.
doors, as the carriages then drive away.” Dalliio
silent accompaniment of silence, against the background of CD-
the sound of an ax is heard. “It's getting quiet.
Among the silence, the dull sound of an ax is heard
tree, sounding lonely and sad.” And finally
“You hear a distant sound. straight from the sky, sound
broken string, fading, sad. On-
‹the silence grows dull, and only elshino, how far away
in the garden they knock on a tree with an ax.”

Thus, all of Chekhov's plays are inspired by
vocal accompaniment, clearly not throwing
into the eyes, but has an imperceptible effect on the
Hiku from the viewer. Musical accompaniment technique
nia is skillful; mastery of orc-
lines; the sound colors are varied:
from different timbres, different musical intru-
cops to musical noises.

Both the nature of the orchestration and the sound coding
The intensity and dynamics of sound are not accidental, they are found
are in close accordance with | action
actions. This organic bond increases 'war-
accepting an emotional tone, similar to
The horn increases the natural power of the voice.

3.

In a continuous and continuous flow of time
other moments have special value for us,
when we cling to the present by force of will.

to take a look at the soul and penetrate it $

future. Deleting into the past and future
emotional, sometimes with joy, sometimes with anxiety,
grief. In life, this attempt to overturn is often
with the gaze of “both under time,” as expressed in
present and future author of “tin on the shelf”

Igor", is associated with rapprochement and distance -

mi people into space. Joy when approaching,
separation anxiety, who doesn’t understand these
feeling? “Seeing off and saying goodbye”—who doesn’t have a
his emotional box hidden accordingly
existing experience? Eto didn’t survive the squeezing
hearts at a farewell to the railway station
at least a little familiar person? Other than that
equal conditions. one might say; that inteniz-
the feeling of transfers and meetings directly and
national, time and space: more tro-
we experience vogues when a loved one or
just a person I know is leaving for many years...
thousands of miles and for an indefinitely long time,

cha when he leaves for the dacha and for several

to days.
“Seeing off and meetings”—this technique has an impact
impact on the emotional psyche of the viewer -

,
Ra

.

No. 5

tea in almost all of Echokhov’s plays, with the exception of
neitherI eat Ivanova.

In “Three Fears, Irina, Olga and Masha met
© Vershinin. The meeting gives impetus to
remembering the mossy past. Top
was an officer in the brigade in Moscow where my father
sisters was the battery commander. Sisters then
were little girls whose faces were difficult
remember. Masha suddenly remembers that
Vershinin was then a lieutenant, I trusted someone
damn, for some reason everyone teased him about being in love
major; he only had a mustache then, now
“He grew old, it turns out that he even lived

she is on the same street - on old Basmannaya, etc.

Memories of the past are associated with dreams
about the future, making the wind even more joyful
stnoy: they, sisters, are moving to Moscow -
“We think we’ll be there by fall. Our native city
roll, we were born there... On old Basmannaya
street’ (both laughing with joy).” Farewell to
It’s hard for the Vershinins. As always in such cases
the difficult moment drags on, I don’t want it to be destroyed
beat time and space, looking for a reason to
extend the stay © of loved ones; spruce found
uncle © we work, after pauses, or words are spoken
ordinary, trotocol, trying to
wing excitement, but only emphasizing the inner
morning flutter": "we're leaving now. Olga Ser-
tvevna; It’s time for me” or “everything has an end. Vet
we are parting." And Olga expresses the reason
overwhelming sadness with the question: “seeing
will we ever be again? "Must be no"

> Vershinin answers. And this gap, in time and

space, quantitatively indeterminate,
people who lived together and fell in love with each other
will cause the viewer to be uncritical. The last act
“Three Sisters” is even more difficult. that they are seeing off
after all, it’s only Vershinina: let’s go with him and Rode
and Fedotik and Doctor Chebutykin, and tomorrow
Irina is also ready to leave © Tuzenbach, Dobraya po.
Half of the active persons leave, and one - Tu-
Senbach - leaves forever, killed by Solyony, for
with the exception of the remaining sisters, for whom
these wires are organically connected © destructive
the fulfillment of their dreams: they will no longer be in Moscow.

_ In "Uncle Vanya" a p sits down at the estaterofes-
litter Serebryakov © wife and turns the top
the bottom of the whole way of life: no one does anything,
sleep and eat at the wrong time; at dinner they serve “time
"Kabuls" and Drink wine - generally behave unwell
Tovy way of life. Uncle Vanya. comparing
his ideal image of a professor
did he start from afar, with the living figure of Serebryakov?
to be indignant for a foolishly spent life. subordinate
valuable to the interests of the professor, who is “exactly

About CHN-I 4 ———=—

has been reading and writing about art for twenty-five years,
understanding absolutely nothing about art.”

Against the backdrop of “meetings,” three romantic relationships develop.
episode: boring, hopeless love of Voy-
Nitsky to Elena. Andreevna, beautiful hopeless
Sonya’s love for Astrov and semi-physiological
The highlight of Astrov’s passion for Elena Andreev-
no. These unfortunate episodes and the constant presence
the impact of the hated figure of Serebryakov is thickening
already unhealthy atmosphere, thinning-
being shot by Voinitsky at the professor. Profee-
rubbish © wife are leaving. Not their departure in itself
affects the viewer and other characters: but this
departure marks a turning point in the life of the
Uncle Vanya, and Astrov, and Sonya, and Blena Anreyoev-
us. Maybe they'll never see the windows again...
The possibilities of their happiness will finally die. However,
in the face of time, Voinitsko’s soul softens
and in relation to his “worst enemy”
to the professor, “it will be as before”; says uncle
Uncle Vanya and kisses three times © Serebryakov. Vav
and in other plays Chekhov emphasizes the offensive
I feel the silence after leaving: “Silence,” says
Astrov. The feathers are creaking, the cricket is screaming. Warmth,
cozy... I don’t want to leave here.” But horses
served, the bells ring and Astrov leaves and
only the knocking of knuckles, counting and fragmentary phrases,

with which Uncle Banya and Sonya are thrown,
emphasized their loneliness.

In the 2nd act of "The Seagulls" - an unfulfilled
departure. After Treplev’s quarrel over the play with his
mother, a woman revising someone else's success,
Arkadina and Trigorin are going to the city. Ro-
manic episode of Trigorin and Nina, beginning
which is due for destruction and a secondm actions,
where Trigorin is perceived by Nina in a romantic way
the writer's aura is a celebrity, and Nina
connects in Tryagorin’s poetic consciousness ©
in the image of a seagull and where the “witch lake” does, .
according to Dorn, everyone is nervous, containing
a lot, a lot of love, threatens not to get developed.
Trigorin, anticipating the joy of the young
immediate. Respect. I don’t want to leave
reap “My name is... Should be packing up.
But I don’t want to leave.” As always, last
moment you begin to pay more attention, to watch
into the surroundings in order to better capture it,
you begin to appreciate this environment. It is known that in
In many cases, both nature and people value more
xia and loved from afar than with daily
communication. When parting, a person, by imagination
He already feels his own from afar. Therefore
Trigorin, following the words “I don’t want to leave”
"- looks back at the lake and says, "Look
after all, grace. Fine". Nina wants to say goodbye
moment to connect the image in Treplev’s mind
64

BURN.

No. 5

of the area: “You see a house on that bank
and a garden. This is my late mother's estate. I
was born there: I have spent my life around this
lakes. and I know every island on it.” So
Thus, preparation for departure contributes to
`maturation' of Trigorin's and Nina's feelings, 'find-
lichea previously in embryonic states, This
so clear to the viewer, who knows from experience 0bo-
stretch of feelings: in the moment. breakups. Leave
preparing for the episode from the middle of the act, when Arvz-
Dina goes © her manager Shamraev since
© horses that must ‘deliver to the city
her and Trigorin. When `Arkadina reports Tri-
Gorin that they remain, the tension is understandable
is anticipated and replaced by ‘expectation of development of the intended
a valuable romantic episode,

The third act of “The Seagull” goes under the meaning
com breakup. In stage directions? to this action
by the way, it says; "In the middle of the room
table Suitcase and cardboard boxes; noticeable ‘cooking’

departure." At the moment of parting, people

even ‘not very much. damn familiar. become
intimately frank: And Masha `ratells
Trigorin the most intimate of his soul: about hopelessness
dear love to Vu Treplev, about the need for you
tear this love up by the roots. The conversation goes beyond
breakfast and Masha pours vodka for herself”, which

under ordinary conditions, maybe not.

I would do it. An indicator of increased emotional
g” Noah serves as Masha’s excitability and’ characteristic
her phrase regarding vodka: “shouldn’t we repeat
us?—and all this is connected by departure—“You
a simple man, it’s a pity to let you down.”

Zalem Nina expresses the general, but constantly
the ‘feeling’ that operates in us when we see off: “We
We’ll disperse and... perhaps we won’t see each other again.”
So understandable is the desire to connect the memory of what happened
goyya to a person’s loved ones with some kind of knot:

“I ask you to take this as a souvenir from me -

small medallion. I ordered it to be engraved

vaani initials, ‘a © this side the name va- 7

our books: “Days and Nights”... “Sometimes we remember
find 060 for me.” ‘The following dialogues
Arkadyshna © Treplev and Arkalyina with Trig-
Rin, confirm the idea expressed: influence
cancellation of departure for expedited resolution of a number of
sheny. Departure is a platform that helps nz-
mature the relationship and then allow it.
Under other conditions, Sorin’ was unlikely to become a talker.
rit © Vestroy 0’dengahoi we ‘but would have learned about
Arkadyina’s stinginess, ‘Conversation before leaving’
son and mother find out the nature of their relationship
. ny, clarifies both to the viewer and, probably, to you
`Trigorin, nervous with his sharpness and bitterness,
0b’em ‘and the nature of his love for’Nina, and power over
him Arkadyina.

Since the appearance of Shamravva, the last
the final act of departure. Spacious and
Shamraswa's irrelevant chattiness
only emphasizes the closeness of the final race
staniya, especially one phrase: “take your time,
Dear dear, you still have five minutes.” Kaz
always, general bustle and general gathering. <Ikov
fussing about the suitcases, the maid bringing
Arkadina shayan, coat, umbrella, perchalvi; VSO
help Arkadina. dress. From the front door
looks out for the cook, who a little later enters
dit hesitantly. Comes in.Izaina Andreevna,
then Sorin and Medvedenko.” Offered for the road
sad plums, crying and hugging. Character-
but upon departure the appearance of thoughts: Poly-
n Andreevna that “our time is running out.”
Sorin reminds us of the need to hurry,
to be late. Wishing you a wonderful journey
and the stencil “a letter would make you happy” p,
finally, the last stink of parting:
“first the maid returns to seize
tit 00 table forgotten plums. &zalem Trigorin for
left with a cane. Last meeting. Trigo-
Rina © Ninoy and their first kiss give permission
making a "romantic episode, showing him
climax.

In the fourth act, the arrival of Trigorin, Message
Dorn's rumor that Arkadina went to meet Tri-
gorina; gave me a reason to remember Nina and Rasoka-
talk about the tragic fate of the seagull. Meeting at
new conditions give rise to memories of the past
ohm; it’s especially emotionally strong
knowledge when reciting Nina is monologous

_Treplev’s decadent play “People, Lions, Or-

ly, etc.—a technique similar to the leit motif in 'one
re. for example, the waltz motif in the last act
"Fausta". According to the contract with the past - that tra-
more hygienic perception of fat and omotsialnoe
anticipation of the tragic

The “Cherry Orchard” prepares for the arrival of guests
lies in the first words of the play. Together with Lopakhi-

The audience is waiting for the Ranevskys and Dunyasha, 12-
Pakhin says that he was late to meet you, Dunya

It's creeping up, aren't they moving? Poor little lady
zoy causes the viewer to imagine the des-
but the traffic chaos. Lonakhin answers Duna and
also listening, he says: “pet... the luggage is
receive, this and that”... The expectation is filled with military
a glimpse of Lyubov Andreevna’s past; decrees-

is added together © and on 0be the necessary costs- =
rons emotions wind;: time and space m th |

necessary changes associated with it.. “No.
Blessed Andrezvna lived abroad for five years, no.
I know what she has become now,” and then they say
he listens: “they are going, in the very grandfather’s place, Let’s go.”

That one
city No. 5

+ s Zeya
$

talk. Will he recognize me?nya? Five years but
they gasped."

_ Sadovoik sends ® Epikhodov a bouquet of flowers
tev to festively clean the living room
sta. Tender Dunyasha is shaking with excitement
° waiting for Ruvi and she is ready to fall. generally rock.
_ This is humanly understandable and easily perceived
° possible atmosphere of anticipation. The very act of arriving
la breaks silt several steps: guests and
oraz. ENTER: first the sound of arriving is heard
 bzhipageh, on which Aopahan run out
at “DU yata, ‘leaving the stage empty; then in co-
„‚ Noise begins in the rooms; then through
Vo®Shchenu comes = guests Firs; ground
the noise gets louder and then they go to the emergency line
* - Ranevski", accompanied by a whole bunch of wind-
” ‹ cherished ‘their acquaintances and pGisluga with things, oh
"Umbrellas, etc., Tavim" way, even here
g skillfully used in successive stud-

residential complex; Peni emo ^ expectations. Follow up conversation
Ak VU mi faces is very characteristic
"I say: ‘he is sketchy, emotive, concludes

E. a lot of shouting, confusion, jumps

from one year shudmota in another; attention 4

_ melts from the past to the present and ‘back; F
° waving with joy. The joy of hearing
the totality of the road and the drowsiness of the third hour
“Departure of Ranevskaya, Trofimov, Lopakhin you
`_ is banned no less brutally and no less symbolically
® shichen. Let's remark about the scenery has
_ you from the very beginning loyelvia cause u.see-
I feel the emotion of anticipation of departure. The tensions have been removed and
_nartyans, furniture piled up in a heap. suitcases, d:=
‘knots, boxes are tied together, Go-
‚ Zheya forgive heya men. They drink Shamian wine.
Like TShamravv in “The Seagull”, Lopakhin is reminded,
There are only 47 minutes left on the train. This means
Go to the station in 20 minutes. Pot”rapli-
"Wap yourselves." Trofim v. can't find his galoshes (in
“Seagulls” Trigorich forgot his stick). Vet›-
>. so as not to forget something, in particular
- mt, Anya is making sure that Firs is sent to
itsu. Ran”rekaya takes care of Fireya and 06
__ diva, which was left unattached. Barely
No. 3. t aineny. already Petit, which is necessary"
- get in. Looking around the last ras lovely ste-
We are locking the door with a key. Last

eager to break away from the sweet love of their home,
dreamed by voices behind the stage, and it comes
>tidrine.

_ both “Vetrechi” and “Provols” bark to the plays
<ha in the morning, musical character. Served
>” strongholds for the development of action, they are

b __ most create a unique rhythm of the play. muses-

And a. t 65

“Yayubov Andr”evna and Gaev are leaving, they just can’t.

cal beat. Besides wow, oli iy-
give the action "all kinds of internal sound-
how to become dynamic: growth and income
actions. Associated with the arrival is a post-war maru-
the formation of action reaching a certain point -
deposition point; atekh this action iadya-
no Apaliev@o to the departure of the heroes. Thus,
not only? external musical techniques
Chekhov influences the viewer, but also the music.
the completeness of their speech, as was indicated, in addition.”
the musicality of the composition of the plays itself.

7+

4.

Chekhov almost always lets the viewer out of 65
I was very excited. H0 © cheerful ZUuE-
stvom, maybe; similar to the one that
Turgenev tortured, looking at the jumping warrior
rabbi: “We’ll fight again, damn it.” In other
rum here you can try to prove that flies
Chekhov's piano, contrary to what has been widely spread. look-
Well, I couldn’t call it more pessimistic. But for this
we need to think more deeply about what Che says
khov in the plays, one should extract Io plays organically
the Chinese system is his wisdom. According to the plot
plays end with the collapse of the heroes and the cheerfulness of the audience
body is achieved by influencing its intake
indications for the future. There is no activity that is silent,
but the prospect for the future opens up. This peu-
perspective. obviously not personal, in our earthly
in the sense of elov, time, something else. Y
the hymn to this other reconciles the vision © eemimmk
disasters, doing together $ eat, ryu
yours. figurative catharsis,

“The music plays the basin cheerfully, cheerfully, and hochevekh
live, he says. Olga to her “stram” when st.
everyone left. 0, my God. Time will pass and we
let's go forever. They will forget us, they will forget our zines.
voices and how much it was,but etradanii
will turn into joy for those who will live 1064.”
Yes, happiness and peace will come on earth, and remember-
chickpeas with a spruce tree and they are kind to those, but 2i-.
vet now. 0, small villages, our life is still
finished. We will live. The music plays the call in 0ve-
lo, tav joyfully and. it seems a little more and we
We’ll find out why we live, why we suffer.”...

“We’ll rest,” Sonya tells Uncle Vanya; Ma
If we have angels, we will see the whole sky in aam-
Zah, we will see how all the evil of the earth is ours
suffering will be drowned in mercy, the second filling
not with you, the whole world, you stepped into our death -_
hoy, tender, soghaena. I believe, I believe...

In “The Cherry Orchard” Anya dreams of the future:
“You, mom, break in soon, soon, really
hee? I'm half-heartedly trying to pass the exam at the Gimiz-
Ziya and then I will work and help you. We,

E >
66 GORN.

No. 5

Mom, we will read different books together. Not
Is it true? We will chat in the late afternoon,
Let's honor a lot of things and a new one will open before us.
"Holy, wonderful world." <

5.

Fet's ark, in which ayudi sleeps from
seeking to absorb their waves of life. This is ii-
dark atmosphere of family closeness, family
"sweat. This is that box of yours, on which at seven
Rostov (War and Peace) were begged to
enjoy your joys and your sorrows. This
atmosphere of love that binds people together
in another and people © things in an inextricable connection,
desires things as if they were animated. I accept-
the origin of people; atmosphere of love, in -
which every member is valuable in itself and retains its
individual appearance, the feeling of the snake to sit in
everyone's effective memory in more' or less
strong degree, so it is enough for Chekhov to
couple a few dashes of catfish life
loving tease of each other
family, anxious apprehension, bitterness for failure
loved one, affection in one’s own thing, etc.—
so that the viewer becomes wary and begins to imitate

and felt what was happening on stage, close

kim; to your own relatives.
`This is how the feeling of sbmya is especially evoked’ in us
"Three sisters." In "Three Compassions" - a fragment
family, once upon a timeimo soldered internal
defrost, On the laziness of Irina’s name day; which, cab
the youngest, out of habit, is considered a girl, vepo-
`Childhood is sweet, when my mother was still alive,
Etets, wonderful isels are smelling. Imevins—by tra-
achievements in the world are of great importance. Wakoy
eyubovy penetrated into the lake for the birthday girl and kav
Infectious, will pull this fuck into its orbit
‘foreigners, such people; as a nitilist Chebuta-
a man who finds tender words: (“bird
‘they say white’), like those like Sozheny: With care
and the sisters are overcome with anxiety for each other: oh Mo-
Ekwe dream of opi not everyone for themselves, but. behind the scenes
We all are traveling, but only Olga and Irina, and my brother,
‘who will be the trophessor and the second one therefore
Kelzya will live here, and Mala, who will
’ come to Moscow “for all the years”, every year.”
Name days are celebrated in past years, when
° the father was alive when “it came every time but
thirty, forty officer in, it was noisy.” In the family
to the new one, wicked joy reigned,
irony towards each other and strangers. Masha
recalls how Vershinin was a lieutenant
®he's in love and they bullied him for some reason
a major in love. Memories come alive
aroma of family. Andrey's playing behind the scenes on the violin

ve pays attention to him, How proud the sisters are
even my brother, how desperately they try to
eale before Vershinin of his qualities: he is in
plays the violin, he will be a scientist - he is the one who
I gave a frame of the portrait and gave it to Irin today,”
He also made the frame over the piano; in a word,
as Olga says, he is both a scientist and a screenwriter.
he plays and cuts out various things, swears at
all hands." Sisters keep a little secret
A.drey’s love and when the embarrassed Al-
dray wants to leave, how much love is felt ®
their teasing exclamations; I want
call you “violinist in love”, say
Irnia, “or a professor in love” - pick-ups -
says Masha, “he is in love, Andryusha is in love, he is
wow, bravo. Encore Andryusha is in love"—we applaud
Olga and Irina. Subsequently, Chebuta’s gift-
kin of a samovar, a basket of flowers brought
Fedodik M and Rode, by thembrought Karai-
dashiki and top, birthday breakfast, ® which-
all the relatives gather, banter
at breakfast over Androy and Natasha - all this"
finally draws you into the affective system
lump. The more upset the viewer experiences
tel, seeing the collapse of the family; when Natasha brings in
discord in Andrei's relationship with his sisters, everything is close
which threaten to spread out in different directions;

In "Uncle Vanya". sets up ma wonderfully
intimate family mood scene and night snack (9-
Institute of Detrova at the buffet, On anxious days, when
Someone in the family is sick - but Serebryakov is still there
Senya's father - or p) came for other reasons
stay awake at night and stay awake in a tense
uprising, sometimes presents his demands,

despite all the troubles and even grief, hunger.

And this snacking—precisely at the buffet—is
vaet na intimate had frankness ve solwe
spectator, but most of all Sophia, in the second in front of others
circumstances, perhaps Aet would not have said
drow of what she tells him here.

In “The Cherry Orchard” the connection that...
established in a family between person m -
thing. Lyubov Andreevna, upon arrival at the estate, -

6) looks at the children's room with tears of joy,

in which ocha slept when she was little; ova_
they look tenderly at their room, at their windows; They.
kisses his own closet and St. And otoayk. Down-
the closet to which Gaev addresses © speech,
there is a hundred lots and could celebrate the anniversary. :
And how terribly it contrasts with all this comfort
drink what he tells about the life of your mother *
Tory in Paris Asya: “We’re coming to Paris, there \.
Well, it's snow... In French they say it's terrible. 1
Maml live on the fifth Eeage, I come to her, at

some Frenchmen, ladies, an old priest with *

Her
No. 5

RE

67

#% yes" ——

wow

a book. and smoky, uncomfortable. I suddenly felt
Zal mom, so sorry, and hugged her head, squeezed
E ruvami and but I can E. Mom later. carried
I was sad, I cried”... But I aroused special love
The cherry orchard is in the heroes: it is almost alive for
them. It’s a shame, as Petya Trofimov says, if
"believe that youthe serfs shared this garden,
__ souls are sad, the garden seems scary,
“and when you walk through the garden in the evening or at night,
And why the old bark on the trees peels away,
’m important. cherry trees are seen in full view,
“what happened a hundred, two hundred years ago, and difficult visions
‘They’re killing them.’ But if so, then it’s still bleeding
- calico with clan, family family, is carried out in
`_ the external garden, it is like an unquenchable lamp
‚. miku, kindled in honor of the penates, on, it oee-
live the grief and joy of a number of Mokolevians who n®-
mediocre, the blood has now come to life in the person of Lu-
$ozy Andreevna and Gaeva. Therefore, Love An-
` it seems so absurd to Korevni and Gaev that they
’ cherry orchard, the most remarkable phenomenon in the city
Berna, the second is mentioned even in the Encyclopedia
eopedic dictionary, will be cut down, and the earth
the tramps will be rented out to summer residents,
‚ similar to what if blasphemously transformed
_ elyam sacred torch into the device for lighting-
` niya cigarettes!

By the way, people like to refer to the term of Chakhov’s plays as
*see the key—a weapon of the prosperous barrier
> the birth of a family - a household in a symbolic or
_ avik meaning, When Andrey

> “Three sharp points”) nostellen” is drawn out in the usual
let's feel like a swamp when it's clear that the sword is gone
you © ‘professor; when there is clearly a collapse and families
` Much happiness is true, the latter, but also Andrey himself
finally sees the true image of his wife - =
_chi comes to the Bestra and asks for the key to the cabinet:
& - You lost yours, you have such a small one
“Noyuchik,” he says to Olga, In the same play Iri-
compares the saint’s soul with an expensive piano, “like
Yours is locked and the key is lost.” "In my life,
Rit, Tuzenbach, - there is nothing like that -
oh, what could frighten me, and only this
Neither. ‚ lost. the key torments my soul, not hazt ine
this one In "Vinshevoy sakh". when Hotahia 06°
_® indicates that the estate has been drained and that the owner is
— aliaotsya op, Lonakhin, Vgrya takes off his belt
`yauchi and throws them on their heels, Triumphant That-
Nakhiya picks up the keys and jingling them, says:
Ebroenla has the keys, wants to show that she is alreadyis
And Pai is here.” There, Trofimov called
No. to break with old forms of life. govo-
5. rit-ey: <if you have the keys to the farm, then
_throw them into the well and go away. Be free - E
"Oh, go to the wind.

6.

There is a lot of tragedy in Chekhov's plays, but young
presentation of the story in the forms of tragedy. groin in life; at
it is tragic, ai: combines, cross-
appears random, absurd and therefore funny.
In this from. Chekhov's clothing can be compared to Shezhe-
a feast that also has elements of tragedy"
combined with the comic, at least as an example.
in Hamlet. This feature cannot be considered as
the advantage of the new drama over the tragedy of Se-
Phocles and Euripides, where such a combination is impossible
but, but it should be noted as a unique technique
impact on the emotional perception of vision
whether. This combination makes the action on stage in-
intimately close to the modern viewer, life in
which was flogged with the same varied
intertwining the comic with the tragic. Nelelo>
in moments of tragedy makes you laugh, from
“laughter through” tears” (of course, not in the sense of `ge-
Golevsky intuition, which has a completely sietsu-
physical complexity), laughter, deepening em-
cisnal perception, as in general’ underscores-
Every perception is based on contrast.

In the 4th act of “Ivanov”, when’at the graves’
Sarah is preparing for a new wedding, getting ready to marry
a feast, rumbling importantly, undressed-_
Babakin's taya, produces a grotheque impression -
tion. When Lvov appears there on a sunny day,
ready to do something extraordinary
vital in order to tear off Ivanov’s mask, “so that
he flew from the seventh cab upside down into the pit,”
Kosykh pesters him with 00 of his 146 Phe;
“Yesterday he announced a small helmet of clubs, and
big. Only again this Baranov is blowing my mind-
ruined my language. Let's play. I say no trump card.
He passed. Two clubs. He passed. I'm two diamonds... three
trophies, etc.,” so that Lvov is forced to replace
to say that he doesn’t play cards and doesn’t
share the card delight When then.
busy with neotupnoy humbug about Ivanov, he,
worrying askKobykh says:® “listen;
tell me sincerely: what is your opinion 09
Ivanov? He returns again to his
“It’s not worth it. Plays like a shoemaker. B
Last year, during Lent, there was such a case. Sa-

Himea we play: me, Count Borkin and 94.
I'm barking"... | re
In "Three Compassions" André descending

Vekryvat the tragic difference between; 939
it could be and what it is. “Dear grandfather, Govrit si
Ferapovt, how terribly changes, how exchanges -
life is coming! Today I am full of boredom and have nothing to do.
I picked up this bag - old university
Auntie's lectures, and I felt omepgto... God m9.
I am the secretary of the Zemeka Council, that Council. where

5.
68

ABOUT ZRAE

No. 5

Protopopov is the author, I am the secretary, and
at most. What can I hope for, 91074
be a member of the Zemoka Upraza! Mie be a member
of the local Zemstvo Council, to whom I have come
every time that I am a professor at the Moscow University
versitota, a famous scientist who is proud of
Russian land! 06 Andrey is not happy with this tragedy
 Let's say: his wife doesn't understand, he's afraid of his sisters.
they will laugh at her: “I don’t drink, I don’t drink alcohol, but
® what a pleasure it would be for me to sit in Mo-
kve.u Testov, or in Bolshoy Moskovsky.” Sound-
the words “Moscow” reach the consciousness half-deeply
Hogo Ferapokta and express their value in it
mouse: “And in Moscow, in Upraro just now I told
called the contractor. some Kuns ate byanna;
one who ate forty pancakes seemed to have died. Not
either forty or fifty. I don’t remember,” And when
Andrey says that “in Moscow, in a huge hall”

restaurant, you don’t know anyone and no one knows you.
no, and at the same time you don’t feel like a stranger. :

And here you know everyone and everyone knows you, but
“hoy, chuloy.. alien and lonely”, Forapont,
with its parallel current. reasoning underlined
this loneliness nods: “And the same contractor
‚ turned out - maybe he’s lying, as if he didn’t care about the whole Mo-
aiva kazat will stretch out.”
G. In “The Seagull”, after the failure of the theatrical attempt -
_ \and Treplev, when everyone experiences a feeling of un-
‚chew and some pain for the aspiring poet,
Shamraev, apparently, solely due to thetoday's
Zososociation 60 in the word theater, pi to sol, not in the state
Lu tells an anecdote: “To Pomiya, in Moscow in
At the opera theater the once famous Silg
I took out the lower do. And at this time, as if on purpose, ep-
affairs on gallorea bass from our uninodal singers
sneeze, and suddenly, can you imagine our
In utter amazement, we hear from the gallery: “bra-
wow, Silva!” sing an octave pizhe... Like this
`(low bass): “Bravo, Silva...” Theater so’ and
froze." The same Shamraev, in a convulsive turmoil
hey, when they're busy around the suitcases, straight
wear clothes, help get dressed, come back again

talks to his horse. “So you, Irina Ni-

Kolayevna, do me a favor, don’t forget to visit
reference: td" is now an actor Suzdaltsev., Yaziv la.
Are you healthy? We had a beer together once. In "Robbed"
Noah mail" played inimitably... With him then,
_tyumpu, the tragedian Izmailov served in Elizavetgrad,
_ also has a wonderful personality. Me hurry up
‘Dear, just a few more minutes. maybe, once a day
meludrama they played conspirators, and when they
suddenly covered, then it was necessary to say: “we hit
"a trap", and, Izmailuv - "we got into a trap -
nude" (laughs). I’ll sing.” I
`In "Uncle Vano", after that. Vacollch Bolitis--
Has the halo already faded ^

I already know his pseudo-scholarship when he is present
professor, who made the lives of those around him harmless
labernaya, electrified the atmosphere, ‘when you-
the unceremonious “prozky” expression evokes indignation
professor to sell an estate that does not belong to him,
when in the demon-knowledgeable Voinitsky it was already brewing -
g assassination attempt, ridiculous Bafaya says © evobzh
reverence in science"; “Y. Your Excellency" -
I have not only a reverence for science, but also
related feeling. ‘My brother’ Gragorne ^
Ilpcha y bratuumolt, if you please know. K and
stantin Trofimovich Chakdomon, was a master's degree
yum"... I
There are especially many absurdities in The Cherry Orchard.
mic Characters and comic momoites. 1
embedded in action. Into conversation and listening
awaiting the arrival of guests Lopakhin and Duzyati
interfere, bringing a bouquet of flowers: 0%’ gardens-
Nika, Epikhodov - twotwo misfortunes" —›
discussions about the climate, about sprinkling boots
and 0 of your misfortunes. During the discussion
outraged Gaev ^ and Ayubov Andreevnol

Lopakhin's project to cut down Vishlev's
rent out the estate: for rent to summer residents, veg Irina)”
yearning for antiquity and deaf, like Ferapont, fe
zyically and symbolically to the new, Firs recalls
no, as in the previous Rremlya, 2 from 40-50; back; "screw
dried, mochidi, pickled, cooked jam
or "... ‹and sometimes dried cherries were sent in return-.

flew to Moekva and Kharkov. It was negligible and drier
Vishta then was soft, juicy, sweet, soulful - |
flock... They knew the method then.”... Now, according to >
Firsa, they forgot this method. Nikt POS
“You are a full-blooded Sha- |
boy, with a horse-like face, falling asleep.
cold and instantly waking up, swallowed
giving all the pills at once Lyubov Andrevny, _
eating half a bucket of cucumbers, iodine
the money dried up, and the one talking about Ntie: “Nitsiuo 2.
philosopher... the greatest, most famous, giant-_
a man of great intelligence, says in his writings, -
as if it’s possible to make fake papers.” In mo-_
ment. when everyone feels the excitement of goodbyes,
Pipse, wheezing and out of breath
tells © some glichans, to whom _
They poured some white clay into his soil and gave it to him.
he is lazy, thanks to which he can saw
with debts. And, besides, “everyone young
the man told in vagne, bay klkoy-t9_
the great philosopher advises jumping © koyiti.
“Jump,” he says, “in this too.” all zalacha, "2
marking preparations for the t’ezl and dreaming in”
nev all. situation, Nischi® says already, in this way.
tears: “Nothing... Magnify his mind Lyuli.” Ri.
Englishmen", Rizego... Butkte echastliRy.:; BR!

this to you... nothing... Everything in this world would-

ve

GOR \&

69

_ said Bonets... (kisses Lyubov Andreevna’s hand).
“\ It will reach you that the end has come for me,
°° remember this very... horse and say:
“there was such and such in the world... Simeotov-Pnshchik...
the kingdom of heaven to him. Wonderful weather.
Yes". : Creepy productionodit in the background
sound of bursting strings, absurd enisodic
’ figure prod his three “Nog`da ire-
‘red mothers) - My brother, suffering
GO OUT to the Volga. whose walls... (Vara) Mado:
^ Don't give a hungry Russian a few kopecks,
186"; It resolves the emotion of ‘terrible
and the feeling of the branch created by the sound of the beating Etru-
you, interpreted by Fire, are like a foreshadowing”
schastiya: “nonreh Participle 0 same. was; and owl
d t samovar there": o"
^” The angrier ones are taken more threateningly about the combinations
VOICHSKY © strategic: in general they are in p6-
‘Chekhov’s zakh is much greater. It was stated
‚ Combinations of wind and base
frames of Iyetyra: But it should be
Shezekir's OTTI AND Anie combine comically =
some sisny © tragic, in Chekhov - -comic-
sad and tragic. in the path of one phenomenon. And tah
like ego comic is not. random, NC

organ connected, needed. 9 vomi-
_ Chvekov creates rhythm and unity of action.
Why are you delaying the development of action, but it fills
th. `
‚Oe a

One could briefly but stop at ana-
© and other methods of stage influence.
walking in Chekhov's plays. These are the “etrate”
ny_voblomineniya" — virimer, memories
Astrov" and Chebutykin about the unsuccessful treatment of la-
^^ tion in the deadly pedestrian: "outrage
about bozceremonies", vairemer, Voinitsky (uncle
Vanya) and Natapie (Three Yeotras), doing
Gu oNiBU sell property that does not belong to them:
- octetic feeling of admiring the ‘plant and
” bird (Cherry Orchard; kuaf ‘plants, Astro-
G va; the need, according to Tuzenbach, to be beautiful
e howl. kPa colo of beautiful trees; seagull -Nor-
^ va. white bird - Prila, image of flying birds 4

3 oron Mashti ig. d.) subvertible fear about feelings

tvia, etc.
drawer NIGHT

available in

affective

With Bechai, when Nina Za-
> river from the play Tr ` place where gov =
rumor about the approach of the devil; you can smell it
b"er; Arkadina laughs at this stage

x

`Shabelsky concludes:

effect. Meanwhile, Chekhov himself is trying, cro=—
y > kr

Apart from directive techniques, methods of influence and

inferior withaspects of the viewer's emotive psyche. Neither-
the method of influence in taste will be discussed |
high aversion of the viewer. They say that A.I. was a famous
com vueovyh sensations no less than Goncharov.
It is he who is credited with the authorship of the exotic
hot vodka snacks

In the 2nd act of “Ivanova” the gourd is different:
on the bottom of the delicacy, then Lebedev: drinks vodka.
Zinaida Savina offers everyone’ lace
jam, the guests are stingy. the hostess. for
that she didn’t offer nm a snack: In the 3rd lei,
the pigs whine and snack. “Herring, mavushki,
“We serve snacks for the snacks,” he says. ebedev. "Well,
no, he responds. Shabelsky, ‘cucumber is better.
Scientists from. the creations of the world think and think nothing -
eating pickled cucumber was not invented. Meter; iodya-
Also, bring some cucumbers and have them fry them.
kitchen four nirozhki with auk. To hot _
were." Raschuvetvovngieeya interlocutors emaku-
They have a whole range). a symphony of tastes. “Vodvu too
It’s good to eat caviar, says Lebedev. Also-
anyway, You have to be smart... Take some caviar.

verka, two green onions, Provence/Ro

butter, mix it all up and, you know... on top of it
lemon m... Death. t of one aroma.
"Rish." Borkii echoes him: “After ‘vodka is good: _
You should also call them hot brewers. Tol-

you need to know how to fry them. Needs cleaning, but-^
roll it in crushed breadcrumbs and fry the doba

wow. so that crunch... crunch... crunch on your teeth:
"Yesterday"
there was a good appetizer of porcini mushrooms... Only
somehow specially prepared. You know, © with a bow. =

hru":::

saurus leaf, with great aepecia. How. b

opened. on the table; and the steam coming out of it, the smell... just.

delight":

In "Three Sisters" in the first act the cover-
There is a table for breakfast. At the end of the act they have breakfast, |

eat birthday cake, Vulygin and Vershinin cho |

cabin; Vershinnia’s voices are heard from the hall: “th

\

at Babakina Ts

I’ll drink this dark vodka” and Masha, knocking

RI Loop around the plate, “I’ll pour out a glass of wine.” —

_

Vershinin, by the way, notes: “And the liqueur ^

lkuenayal. What is it insisted on", In ptorem dey

Etvia is servedsamovar and drinking tea; Salty

s'vdabt sun sweets. Tuze'bakh drinks cognac and

*

Urafinchika and Chabutyvin tells Irena 9
a real Caucasian treat: song about the sound,'a_
on Oniya minced. ;

In "Dyazh Vano" in the 1st period the table was _serliro-.
van for tea, everyone drinks tea, which has already cooled down.
Aetrov drinks vodka all over the place, a glass of which
brings in income? smu worker, Ve 3rd day. _

ties, at night Aetrov and Sonya make a deal with 5

and

:
$
m

70 HORN.

No. 5

feta; and then Sonya to Elena Andreevna yut bru-
zherigaft, In the fourth act they dream of noodles, which
which I haven’t prepared for a long time because of the professor’s arrival,
Vili.

‚’ In the 2nd act of “The Seagull” Dorn and Sorin dis-
judge the effect of wine and tabab on a person,
which, according to Dorn, depersonalize people
century. “You are full and indifferent,” Sorin answers,
and you have a penchant for philosophy, I >
I want to live and that’s why I drink sherry and smoke at dinner
cigars." Masha leaves for breakfast, and the doctor says
Veled tells her: “Let’s go before breakfast two times.”
will miss the lobes.” In Act 3 Trigorin
has breakfast and drinks with Masha. Polina Andreev-
supplies Arkadina with a basket for the road, very
sweet plums In the last act, after playing d9-
mino, they go to dinner in the next room

cotton wool

In the 1st act of “The Roaring Garden”, a tired woman
_ deregi Ranevskaya drinks coffee that Dunyasha
He's cooking right there. Ranevskaya is used to coffee and drinks
I can do it during the day. In the tragic action of Gaev iri-

wears acchouses. Kerchen herrings. On Thursday
action they drink champagne. ‘r

9.

Not all techniques of stage acting are
The effects on the viewer are given here; but this author:
notice and did not try to give a non-destructive
their hopes: it was important for him to be anointed differently,
at least partly Chekhov’s eccentric methodology
They say that Chekhov's plays are devoid of action. E
we can agree with some reservations
with this statement. But then what is there to talk about
the power of Chekhov's drinks over the attention of the teller!
Is it only by those methods of influence, @ mota-
what was said here? Of course not—nor at all
semblance of Chekhov's wisdom, expressedla
You can say this in terms of price. However,
presentation of the system of Czech wisdom in Evyasi <
stage gesture, or in connection with © vocal
thermonology, may be an item 96800

o
“

"Practice © cultural

G.Yu. REN. t

Cultural and educational work of Moscow`
propetariat.

(According to a questionnaire survey in July 1919)

CHAPTER 1.

In June 1919, the Moscow Club Department
of the Proletkult, a questionnaire was undertaken
my survey of proletarian cultural-pro-
lighting organizations of the cities. Moscow and their

In the Moscow Proletkult it is long overdue
uractical need for clarity and precision
information on all cultural issues
educational life of the working districts of M.-
Well, experience has shown that only in that case
center (Kzkov no matter the area of its activity)
STP), can elect a certain organization
tion programming" work and generally develop
I managed to complete my activities quite systematically.
but, when he knows exactly the situation
direction
resulting from the influence of this center.
` For Prosecult, this kind of awareness
` is of particular importance due to the organization
tional features of his work, as work
culturally creative: this work is first
captures not the entire proletariat, but most
sincere, conscious and active his e-
Mobile TV “optet in Utem and 93-

other activities
hy central organizations, Departments of Narol-
yo. Education and party committees.
Select the indicated, most useful interconnections
worries. Proetvulta as the central organi-
tions corpses prodetkult (and at the same time
groups of industries, industries, from
efficient. areas), on the one hand, establish
the necessary line of demarcation of work with
other pentras, on the other hand, it is only possible
subject to comprehensive information in the field
works of life in general and developing in it
cultural construction in particular.

Meanwhile, until very recently
formational connection of Mosnovek Prodet-

razrmatimech

cultural ^ work on. places,

cult" carried out in the EU regionsyalaee chnezo wu-
flock ©1060bom, through foreigners, sobi-
those who live together salustically and alone,
each in their own area. This information is
can be neither complete nor systematic.
no pinpoints. This situation is not normal
was felt especially acutely in Zhlubny Otdol.
is the organizational center of howl
doyatelteteti Nrozetkulna in the working environment. No. -
this is why the idea arose in 90 famous dinner-
nin workers vul tourism-educational organi-
nnZation, which would draw a complete’ narrative
well, the cultural life of certain areas of Mo-
redwoods and gave 6 durable fazne for production
plans for further work and their implementation
niya, poetaviv zhezo yanpharmaciavnoy evyazv on
static soil.

However, to begin this survey
succeeded only in July 1919. No. eyumu time
I am in charge of the Vaubny Department of Okrug.
the walking frame of Slava Rotten, in the lysche, appeared
slupiyl instouktorekih kureov, usrovniyh
last summer, along My forever Proletkulye, I was going -
workers, their state in their decaying state 43
workers, delegated "© phasely Me
SCoARKih. Myabvik.

Obedience was ortanizuvanyu waiting
a liability. The weight of the work in which privileges were
chen cadets. distributed on 3 parts: church
vyyu—preparatory work for collecting
information to the regional authorities and other organizations, ne-
which are false to support whitening; second-
rye - cerebral part - most ancestal 06-
following; and the third and last is the initial
development of the obtained data.

The inspection itself was carried out according to the 2nd an-
Kez sheets, one of the second was turned
to all cultural and cultural organizations
tions, the second, which was the final statement of the perl-
Go, applied only to clubs covered by ©
more sickly fullness, like or more” mtorey-
gay

No. 5

”mya ® point of view of Proletvult modern-
there is no cultural respect for the worker - classel:

_ The general questionnaire covered the following vishryuses.

’ vu 1st organizational forms of cultural-

’ zhresootitolnoy" milking, in 2 060 0t-

efficient cultural and cultural events

_ _ whined as followse types of cultural division

sti: library, reading room, lectures,

concerts, literacy schools, vures, clubs, v.8=%

_ general general and personal working conditions

— organizations, ;x Ilubnaya a-dota is composed of

was generally general, but in more detail and
screamed into herself again Questions related to
administration of the economic side of the club -
noah, tribute and to the relationship ‚of the club with
district trade centers.

|: The first di work went to collecting their

‚ dony, by ‚ clean workers, _ factory
‚`KudlRu Fvo-enlightenment organizations. Vr.

"Zhavty. The groups were divided (14 groups about

38 chedeva each), so for each

“Prunau suffered desalination of factories and factories

° Chog. or another subdistrict. The examination itself

2 was produced individually, but under control

ezhey, group and, the responsibility of this leadership

yy la: P yubonchanii works on. factories and factories

you "dah. vuromuy turned to. acquaintance with
- in totality, regional. cultural-enlighten-

and Lelnyh tseosherv, Somehow the district clubs
(Suvotskih. paugiinnkh, professional, co-
otseragityu", People's demos", libraries p
centers of regalization - Departments of the People's

Education. party committees}. This work

’ cha dojna was to fade the footstep of participation t

7: arduous-nrosvetiselnoy milking. . pa-

`bochikh organizations, leadership centers of the district-

’ I’m generally interested in painting the picture of cultural
” construction, like mu in some areas

completely turned around.

_^ Pachaltaya development zeeh poluchinyh sve
lenii, ‚verified, klk has already been indicated, ra-
bya 9 ‘obelevation. Ea's development has come down to

and Zupiutovie according to ankota material according to the terri-

z'Rornal. half divisions. By default 0b-

“ownership of factories and factories, individual gruttia
kuroaitoi, zizvodivitiy - this is about take it out

# btaut.mi "vaults and about their slaves. No.

_ completion of work and whitewashing in general,

zviv” labubimy obelolonilyum miterual bya kur-

we are in a separate district.

_ To the extent that “to the best of our ability” has been “achieved” and updates

Rav. obelekhovanya: draw a lightning t shi

th In "kariniitu kuztylurno-proovetchichtezlny life

wi' workers - tayons of Moscow? < This

CH E. nothing. same ri ma-

` nA A

chi

y. organizations. The good news is exhausted.

_ practical value necessary

torials and methods of work in whitening.
those who practiced. Specifically, it comes down to
®first of all, we come to a certain account of experience
treatment No. 2 during work on examining chickens
saptov. To what extent does this attraction have
together © using the usual techniques ыы
stic angels have been studied; monkeys:
This is based on theoretical research, see
strict
objectivity, homogeneity. and flow separately
G ‚and the breadth and completeness of the general map-
tina?—This is a question that must
wives to be removed, so kav in the decision. eg"
is the criterion of how to treat the data.
whitewashing, to the 6th results. yy.
Involvement in work nebeledovaya
cadets, which is what actually did the most. about-
following the possible, ovalo on his 6, ‘through
side impact c. in several ways.
nervously turning his attention (to the territorial
nom relation), secondly, complicating the
keeping tasks high is completely different
nym from 60 updated Stichesk | and
and thirdly, by changing the hundred orgies” and
we work in accordance with twin © new zalachami i
in dullness from statistical samples.
Territorial limitation of the volume of white-
of only some areas of Moscow |
Unfortunately, 9% turned out to be 56905-
possible according to the conditions of work on pureakh. ry:
call the cadets from them. theoretical

extended period, and at 0. pp
personal smt cadets barking examination of all

understand Mlbkaya in those Zetyrelia
There were answers to this ripple” it turned out to be ‘nvlobti-!
then4and0. But this, the obedience was ‘arbitrary: __
but tench in the lighter tayolakh Zamoekvorets
com. Ratiikeko-bimomonkom.  Faemann. ^ - -
foptuveklm. Sushchevo-Myarkinekom” and Mvenen-i
com. These areas are: ^ Soklyalimiy. ‚Butteky. [Ag
Khamoviyich kiy and’ Gobozskly, trischlos, 13 pro- “o
grams of whitewash are excluded. |

Heand co. Toraalo Suestroriei That's barely
actions, "kottbye teaching of Kurkanimv had 4
words sozeani works tu survey and mx t
rick:

Lat Ppoleehlta would be noltoteti
oh ro PROANICH I ri
ready GV PbelALtiitiIt IE.
ate According to the bibiriyat of the branches of elameetah -
About TPU they are not used
obslolevachtya ‘in the meadows otnomentit. more near8-
Kam to the very boom of his work. kah ;otga-

which for

_ life of culture and creativity. . Mono V`peda-

togicheekom. in’ lele o olgatovhi kurelyaigovi k”

the cultural and educational work ahead of them

pene oO 4 b $ $
en 2.

G
k.

th
ъ

@:

meh

Mouth

zicheya, first of all;

ow

E

Beta, And Proletkulg did not follow this path.

Questionnaire" examination was included in the sample
educational course program, which is most important:
juue practical exercise,
was to consolidate general theoretical information
cadets about the organization and content of cultural
t\rnary work among the proletariat, ‘the main
image, reality, and give them the opportunity
feeling at work and in this environment for the first time"
zadmozhio and ire manifest. In the indicated shortages

scientific tasks 06c of research and conclude

Out: “renewal of its contents with new elements”
} MI,

alien to its statistical nature,
which has already been noted. Odvazhuo, in this
In this case, these new elements are of interest to us
‘ami Mo se, 2 due to the impact of what they said
Tvia on the organization of treatment methods,
I'm melting. bt etislic, "work.

Workshop apogee ^ POXXox K 06: production of
In pre-production
ZnvitiU white-haired cadets may be sh-
and in activity and somoetosis and indie

and dua: whose p COLLETIVE in all their stages
slave, Examination. for cadets it should be
it’s okay to lie ‘by the lesson of that same gi, Koti-
f8 in the blink of an eye they themselves will
cheszhn” is everywhere, the ‘mm will have to work-
ha. This section of the survey. as in. price-
na biy sama on s0be. fundamentally contradicts 9.
the basic principles of statistical study,
demanding, on the contrary, ‘the elimination of personal
‚ to us the most possible mechanization of ra-

b't. She is a peter

leads to lack of wealthNo. heterogeneity and dis-
motivation of its results. sometimes I find it difficult -
cabbage soup ‘exchange. The patient is independent

‚ bridge. was left to the Varsants in their entirety

at work and everywhere they showed themselves with tea and
originally from Delhi for statistical studies.

zazikelnoel cadets in the first century
„No. 1st illness, in the collection. ifed-
impressive information about. about factories in general}
tachization subject to whitewashing (Club-
nym Department of ai spievi were
pr oai Chi. four districts
ah needy sounds

modernization), and led to the fact that. in space

‘outer regions, different groups of organizations

olverglie. inspection.. In that
c. alone. Ramonakh cadets
large but medium-sized factories and. them
(Zamoevovetsky, Basmanny, .
Uueveky), in others only

time like
associations

those where it is carried out

ROSEST:

which should.

‘subjectism n ^
_ differentiating individual examinations, ©

‚examined All _

Loforhovekiai,

73

any cultural and educational work"
(Rogozheko-Simonovesky district) ‘or further, even
it is 60466 or less developed (Presveney
area). s

Large space was provided for self-
activity of curreavts 5 in the area of the market itself
nogo examination. True, in. its basis
parts were carried out within completely defined limits
questionnaires on some of the most important questions,
like for example the question of attitude towards Prolectulus
t\, were deliberately not developed in the questionnaire.
and had to be completely cleared by the examiner
exactly on your own. And in general, cadets
often with frames and separate columns
read. ‚

As a result, a great deal of
There's no shortage of information. `In some cases, military
turn out to be more fully exhausted,
sometimes the questionnaires are accompanied by ‘you are welcome to
Dowagers who are ‘their debtors’
nim. ‘In other cases, and vice versa, ‘fearful
questions remain without any note in that ‘or
the other side and the questionnaires were returned in confidence
10 pesapolievngit. Of course, some of these times
hichiya reflect only differences in the action itself
Viteevnoeti. But sometimes they come your way
to pidand the individual properties of the ROLE. -
NIY. a

Particularly motley. picture andredetavieore-
itching of surveys of district centers: training

anne sgedeny face to one area, along with © water-.

their absence but to another. Most times
the ozvez are similar and of different value; they are ok
organizational and administrative inefficiencies
new formulation of the case. In this area. give-
nym obeledovaniya ‘work. create. wakuyu-anbe
general karma What ke kasasteya information yu ©o-

maintaining cultural work, ›the result of ayke-

'ry more. valuable. hears the collar. filmed as a whole

rya" to its significant value. different values, _

known minimum yin

get ready for the last saber work
chimes but sbslbhovaniyu, E initial I

a summary of the information obtained by the survey is necessary.
say that since this work is expressed in

‹vodka of living drinks in the form of mouths, go,

tsismenoyh oglov from troupes iti o r
zoe only praising “the quality of ty, ‘state-
who submitted these reports, was an urgent consideration
som necessary; as far as the summary
surveillance should have been in. same time
m accurate, purely statistical, digital ha-

character So, it’s self-evident, after all

<
to consider those

74

ROTE

No. 5

putting them @e,
stuslvia, dinging, dmntuyu work of statistic
ical sense, Most statistical
skokok were drawn up in good faith, although not
complete, but the ebetoltolstvo that were compiled
Anything according to the same model made it impossible
ik general summary, and yet all the meanings"
tr: y and regional arches precisely in this
the ultimate merging of them into a common summary and 321-
is maimed. Kurezktam did not have a Tao quite op-
slow, catgorical directives in this
the final part of their work. It was a pain-
big mistake from the club department. B
As a result of this error, it's a disaster,
Already on the correct conditions, do the work
meticulous and tedious work on the report
a lot of raw material from questionnaires and all the heaviness
This work fell on Vlubny’s employees

E'dela.

These are the post-productionsthese chickens
ednchev in the field of examination, largely narrowing
increased its statistical significance.

Fyanako, it should be noted that this self-
the intensity of the cadets revealed a conscious
her attitude” in the matter and competence in the matter
questions to be examined had hmm
ovum positive sides.

But the mistakes of the Club Department, in the text al-
questions about the type of factory-
background of the region and the number of workers
in shem. However, in most cases
mia These are available in the ankotas: courants ie s08-
the national initiative received moss.

It makes it difficult to be noted that odma
pz gruni cadets, not ‘satisfied with delivery -
work at her mercy, but self-created
initiative included in the field of its obeledovaznem
expect’ neighboring; not subject to whitening,
Ryan (namely Butyrsky), where she collected her
some valuable information.

Finally, as a result of self-layering and
vitality, and manifestation by cadets, need-
® unfortunately few-
valuable, beautiful whitening of individual sheep -
organizations, which, in their entirety, I ug-
Zvinesti are of interest to us at 66
n many dalms of clarification of cultural issues
ZURNOY. this activity

Now, putting our feet up, we can answer
‘the question asked above is to what extent the inspection

had sharply negative i-,

information

dovanite fell to drink full and wide
a picture of cultural and educational art" work
chy districts of Moscow.

Firstly, the malnutrition spread across all
barrel districts of Moscow, but only six m8 inh-—-&
In this sense, the picture given by the surveyor
but is complete.

But also in those areas that were surveyed
capture, its results are not ischeriy -
powerful and accurate. Greatest value
have survey data related to
workers of factories, cultural projects?-
significant organizations, and precisely in the sat-
derzheaniyu their diligence,, Chu also concerns the io-
presses of an organizational nature, then they are
puppies are whitened weakly, unevenly and
tea. Malotsensky Maleriakh for statisticsCheswi-
This generalization is predetermined by the results of the white-
development of regional centers. .

These conclusions of critical science are
surveys are very, significantly limited
whether the meaning of the latter. Because of the pain and mascot
suitable for generalizing the collected data

black had to give up the original p

thoughts of broad and all-sided coverage
cultural and educational life of the workers of the district
pov Mosyva and concentrate aish pe vultur-
noy loyal to the factory workers
organizations surveyed with more than $9-
worthiness. The cultural work of these organizations"
nizatiy as she looms filed 08-
following, and is devoted to the second part of the report.

And. “I

and,

The survey covered 135 factories
ski enterprises. Of these: according to Zamoekvoretsky
district - 32 enterprises, Baemanny - 26, 4 "-
fortoveky—26, Rogozheko-Simonoveky—39,
Sushchevo-Marinekomu—16, — Nreenensky——1®,
Butyrek—5. The survey included
only large and small enterprises, © chiraohya
workers (according to ‘non-retirement in the autumn of 1918), no less
150; previous experience of others,
it is mainly concentrated in them,
cultural and educational work of prozotarnat.”
and since it has branched out into enterprises -

The overall results are as follows: out of 135

` surveyed enterprises of forging-proevkh-

strong work carried out at 79. Ob’edinena at
club" or associated with club activities

TV

ABOUT NOTHING _ EK

in,
“and

at
th
‚.

Yes you are.

(t)
reih

No. 5

BURN.

75

at 36. Development of cultural and educational activities.
The situation by district is as follows:

F es S ^.”
vase |=
Ev mis a + —
> in the river > ><
5 = ь EP "I At
E:
. =
k = C a OV <
You are alive = other Zi you
e^ © > > =. = =
E r pvc
*^ [* +) [4 (> >
Her o = - a
= 5".
| I
axes |
E from 18 NU = B
IYA x y t > > >.
eo - = <“ G. I am with
A =
Pa opa fo ho ©
& en 1x
I t y > ` - —
- EE]
2. o en Va >
} #i = — — — — — >=
see Iran
2 a av E) ah
May 5 re
o
B
k. © | I
s ^ and . ` you
OH = ; about E.
OH VE
a: [o. vm i . F
>it's for
$ about her |=
© а о 4 5 с >.
a. ohm 5 >
o O Ra =
|i =
oh Sean I
t. skh sy VYu e
i o => i f = 24
veins
|. 69. 595 No. ra in

These digital coefficients of cultural ra-
bozas at iron and steel factories
sons cannot be considered too tall, especially all
take into account its recent occurrence, almost
the beginning of a vulture-educational slave
puts on, 1917, 1918 and 1919, i.e. for transportation
tion time. In very few pre-
The principles of the revolution exist in different ways
cultural-educational education (bifli“-
teks, mugs), but in an itiroko-developed form nigyae
Slavery was not practiced. Sometimes organizations decide
are beginning their cultural activities.
“Cultural work has been carried out since the February re-
Votyutsin" (typogr. formerly Sytin). "Work
the October Revolution was beginning" (kondyacher-
‘kaya fabr. 6. Ivamova and Markova). Interesting
one case of succession caused by whitening
responsible connection. ongoing pa. in the enterprise
artistic work in-revolution 1305 todi: neither
fabt. Nosonkova has had it since 1905, rich in
„Dutical and metallurgical books library of 3,000 households.

‚ However, despite the point 10, which is culturally pro-
sveluigolnaya rabogo, they are quite familiar

. tea number of enterprises, even"

Ca

The situation is that 3 of this area has been improved and improved®
very little. Poch" and more reports of the Wursalelov, prozyunyau-
who lived in obeledovanie, and regional, and gruniovyk.,
contain the following instructions: “Notwithstanding that
All factories have cultural prozeliamzh-.
nye Bomieeni, work in the ‘district protekart is very good.
weak" (from the report of the Blagushinsky subdistrict) -
“Having followed all the voyeuristic and educational. ra-
botu Pyatnitsky and Yahimanek district of ashes
ditol, unfortunately, note the complete steueneyao
professional work for more productive work" (from
subdistrict report). Summary _Sushchevo-Maryui -
district indicates the “priniy ulakhoyu de-
activities, both local and local.
The same kind of conclusion is found in
other reports. Obviously high quality
level of cultural work, di-
does not correspond to its quantitative definition
wandering.
Naibole" is a common form of co-chemistry
cultural education of factory workers
There will be beeps in places and factories. Mz 79 ik
attitudes, "which are carried out by cultural and cultural
amazing work, cholke » 14 no library library.
out of 15 there are new mobile libraries
0. N. 0. and language 50 have their own Bibles
ki and on 10 in it n arched veya vultuo-
eaya rabosa iri iredirmyatvi.  Ureobladalumium
library chip—not sick, in the amount of kimg
less than 1000, in most cases there are 250-580 refugees.
At the 19th Prohibition, the Bible Father St. had
1000 volumes (about 1200-4000 volumes ma bazh-
at the Zamoskvoretsky factories, near Guzhen. in de-
hezmodotozhlyh clubs MV 7,000 volumes at Mreho-
roar). But there are also very hateful library cars,
© number of books is at least 109.
In the hospital there are no cases, bibulutesi, wadi-

to mine. arose m contained from deductions 5-
water committees and immunological committees
(t: karubitkavkochen in vazholu Not mykh

‚cases kumeantyamu sebvalih byulu spzumtoyatoya—

But SLOTvetvetvuYUNIA guzaniya). Library v03-—
nikazi and by Bonfiscaping books from irezhinkh
Vialeltsev fabo-tk-- the same was the case ma fabr.
#. Pooherova, Nosova, Chichkina. °.

Ssetat: kiyag clarified by examining the roofing felts” io-
Really. In all the libraries there is an inviting vel-
zinotvo vnig--bezmetrietyka, vlassikm: vouch-_
books in most cases are very nRuny:
PozitichUevuy otlol I will put it richer, but I will help you
ointments kome and boyunnor "eavelevlgo period". 32%7-
the worker felt the thaw very painfully
we. ishunimi in yuite ornetov ta vunuyu already them
here's the moment. Workers unarmed maeteg-
skoy (Basmanny Rachlv) promises Frolozvtatt
give them a shout © socialchame and kemmu-
Ointment, "Sanitary technical

yy

closed due to loss of leg ability,

and prodetarlat and organiovan are even worse, _
from

„ These certificates are very comprehensive:

Factory beatings were organized
done poorly. With the exception of 'a few
so many libraries, nowhere but
hua-librarian, there isn’t even a catalog in the book though
for the most part: simple. But what pukovoletve chi
let's start" under these conditions: toshechao, Cannot
ai and renie In the chekogory bibziugeks organize
Zionios The disorder is so great that you will
we will Delhi exactly unclear quantity
ze I Podliechikov" (Miuevsky tram
park) or, 40 renders it possible to whistle-
mazicheeeeee plundered books (manager" in
Marynaya Grove). Nri chakoy postivka ode U
ZIalelet Obtyvae" interest in the book and bibhioto-
ka is deserted. However, it is necessary to overcome, most
Zhamomu, stable composition polyhechikov from 25 in _
there are up to 400 of them in body bibdiutes. b
_ Reading room Pi ibnoteke | votrechleya ‘ed,
rr conducted” in memory of the Public, From
Aube; Gasers erupt with roar and noveta
‘tea-gotel by workers, Workers’ calls for treatment
Without a word, they can already get by without Him.

Let's turn first. in courses, various NC
sy, ioctions. How is this compared to a library?
In memory of the beginning, the “menetrov” took over Moscow -

"m @EGH tea

Only. in Biredifiyat survey
And there are Courses. you are personal"

I'm lucky
b1 kureah, ve-
Iyu's civil society classes are going on? No.a-
Chematics, _ history, dealership. And behind
` “Duk” irogram. courses, as noted by 96%. and.

Dovdich, “eoootvogovnu og programme & cola 3rd

zetuyeni." More widespread distribution of ioan-,
That's why it's overbearing
trams, equipped with trams,

special courses m NIKO
‚following-
these are purely utilitarian -tsean, ‘Obedehovalie nak-
Uugal 3. Czech courses, 3 courses
1 right, 3 foreign language courses: low
tramogs---YEEY. It is necessary to note the various
_ character of these latter. At the Dubs plant the scale
I'm there in
‘sulking in’ 2 groups. with the total number of educational institutions
shikhey - -109 people On the outside of Ralle, let’s move in with
‘Dukoom’; I'll get the diplomas by my own will. now wee-
from 16 people, Regular composition of 5 people: 35
45. In 4 directions. there were a lot of letters and
E new
in general. need in. they are big m she is not Vizlane,
"Gaaizua workers, 7 enterprises are open

`

lifetime,

^ nickname" and popularity

Kaya that Fnedopuetyariau fabrik” ‘NiBASIkh pu-

_ 16 _ “A OTRE No. 5
I have." In general, reading and writing is another task for most libraries. not enough
I want to cut off that they are poorly equipped and lack pedagogical strength. a
chlav Lis "in their vamy ‘random. , th Checks Read on 37 of the surveyed

enterprises. But the device does not carry any information
character, the emergence of a certain spring-
grams. In the vast majority of cases, prisoners
everything is arranged sporadically, not defined
divided terms, often very rarely. Every week
ekDin settle down only in a few large
organizations that have clubs (Savelov club.
crazy workshops, Kazan workshop club
zhel. ENT). in others en in some for howl
veto a few times (for
Zavo® Tiltanea “was veego ‘one’ Yaektsiya-—&0
sypnbm typhus"). ‹ to,
The most common phish of lectures on
topics for the current moment and general social
zyu-polchgic themes. They read and read
c Those lectures generally had. place. Device
also lectures on interscientific topics in
6 enterprises; on moditsineknkh - (topics 0
cial sanitation. and. tignens) - tode in 6 prez-

accepting them; in 4 On topics but Vvlsky V
Pnyaeresno

stvu 7 for religious ones.
That is, while in some cases it is more plausible
meaningful topics arouse the greatest › interest —

- among the elushalel (Moscow-Kazakh railway), in _

They discourage others from giving lectures. In general
(Dangauer and Kaiser). workers moved away from Sh
ie ‘shares _ noelo ‚reliable

<.

but she also falls. In large irediriyat lekiya`
They recruit 40-100 people. instead of the old ones
409-600. Organizations” less significant |
and the healer usually did not give the food. |
defining: ev-or: “right”; pli‘ ‘&little’, sales
“iIchgozhnoh”, or swore at all 0” alezhe.iya g
absence of: interest in lek, At the office
lotie (in Leforovekom district?) workers and pre-
the bosom of nothing and nobodies are hating the mucus Agro

U

25

their leaders, they are agitators. VI Lecter:
Nrpii tazeugoe zhtnoainani No. sy WE V ev E
time kosnemeya: about and

The slaves are taking advantage of God's fascination
sneeze vonper oeubenio performances: They `otmbae- —
we're in’ 35 chapters. Usually’ zopsherey and k.
epekchavai usramzalotsya in the premises of the factory
clubs; but ‘in the light of the turmoil of IURUTE
tattoo ‘existing separately from the club or
sovm 663 nogo {fabu. Piyalel: av. Goujon howl
ZHAUGIKH, TB Pet or Teatro Shooting Club Club, For her
performances of the Vonshchergs> are used
dining room A,

h

E H 4

C"

g

U: No. 5

MOUNTAINS

ri

At concerts. almost. always come out pragaa-
shadowed through full names or other organizations
(“shryuletvult”, tsga) artists, performances #e
They often arrange their own. forces. A
Unfortunately, the examination gave little information.
material to suit the worker's repertoire. theater In one
nom only case ot. Czech dominant role
In the NM of the Vodevodshy Hrakyor (report of Shyat-
| NITSKR dranona), in other words it is desirable to put
serious things (1st Gogud, Electrical Engineering
The plant produces “Na Dne” with its own resources).

> Workers' interest in concerts
the nose is very large, their sensitivity is several times
He's raising it. the number of promotions depends on
mainly from the cleanliness of the room
nia; always before the day. However, 2 several
The questionnaire also noted in this area that
doc of interest. At the button factory (in Lefo-
` 0) has been taught by an extensive information that “that
. attend performances at the factory
And the boys." °`
_ V1ub - the usual concentration of all species
Vukhtur work. Lectures, performances and conferences
dirt tracks for the most part and are only arranged

when did you say, ‘there’s a club..
. 77% -s -&

oh "FOR"

others `proyar-

zi. Club work is principled
° calo and about all disassembled types
extensive cultural and educational work
"Bridges are like creative work. ‘The basis of the club
And life - from self-delivery of its members; entering-
and 'mu bodies governing bodies of the club, independent
charms that bleach ‹ his needs, develop
| © scientific and artistic circles corner-
‚blented “Vulture-your Czech work, In

non-reading of the club should be permeated by this.

me” is self-reliant, to cry out from it and when
| Birdy.

However, the factory ones didn’t answerut

° for this purpose. In Boltevetäi clubs sa-

the pettiness of their reading. absolutely nothing

does not appear. Even an external organization

club life. "<management of club affairs" is currently

‚ usually tanized on the basis of your choice -

they. & this is buotoctatic, M№z 9” Zamoekv^-

the smoldering heads of the bloc's clubs totka otin have vye.

buthiol ptamaenie. in 3 clubs it is assigned
(Also Fabtico-zaroleki - Committee
iyai sormostto © commuistic cells), "
9 parts replacing” otitis-radial ‘oga
eutAtuyuchtiy. kicked out at a general meeting of all
PAbdtih, in oRiyitkh blchayite Do not create a vka-
‚who problgo ‘uppyatlechia To Uba and BT nepiteat-
oto Photistometer
mtthetu. (amoabolustyanit NAT tuba NiRa

C

nye circled. They were completely consumed by gluttony. |
16--- dramatic, 16- musical m. dick"
vykh, 2 sports I 1 siteratuyny, io org"
were based on a purely artisanal image, no
Tsoi. they don’t have much to do with thematic work
More often than not, sleepyheads are inactive, Fbyaraya. during-
We have holy ots eyls for constructing a ditch. snerley ik
yesterday, and then go their separate ways again. Very laid back"
mugs. like this. glad they are falling apart. In ankos
there is information about 10 who stopped their business
forging mugs.

So the clubs are not wapoleint
their cultural and creative community and are
only with assistance, where they arrange the “eneh-
takli, concerts and lectures. Mu 'bigger zab
club and soetont from only one patient uchumetaym:
with a stage, employees and ‘theater loan’ in
dining room‘ and. audience. It should be noted that you
The slaughter played an important role in the life of the club
device and supply of the club. table In
in many cases, apparently: factory clubs and
organized by ©’ long-term ‘price of brains’
start for them then products yy Dept. ‘Obukie
venomous Nutrition. |

This is the picture’ culturally promoted
works of the Moscow factory-factories or Raie:
tions. `

Here is the digital expression:

Biya | = "| ''b'investigated enterprises where.

= | ‹rg nizovavy

A ree aa kao y sche

©. >=] 3 = a $ —2n
en: [28 de
= Io E s out 82 “d ta *
o r r r , reor a AE

B - AI ыы 53 > I a *:

O HER zy yy a B

| | b

Gee | 5 ; YOU 5 9 = E G
| 65 ui | >GE E

But we know whites what these numbers say 3
I know that the library is not compiled and *®
it is emphasized that literacy schools
© they work hard to earn their job, that lecture)
stop gathering audiences, that clubs are not in- —
there is no work, liptets of any kind
tions, are empty and know only revival -
around the snack table. Where are her prizes?
lack of coordination, harity, veprokhuktivnost _
cultural endeavors?

th

In "enterprises put forward in general the day =
the same reasons that inhibit cultural development _
bot: sudden loss of energy and absorption ©
acute care © daily bread. Zhlya proe

>

The responsible worker often has no strength left. foreign_

almost none. In many clubs there are differences

H
listen to lectures at the Lefortovo factory; ®

hunting. This is the reason why workers refuse to work 9-_

` Mitzka to pem.

_ the cheeky ones will be:

G

We've already lost all the fat ones. In Yaeforlv -
moms in the area food supply in vrizne
zenshi destroys all cultural endeavors. Rabe-
They demand bread: clubs open in New Zealand
It’s better to get food through them (fabu.
#. Richard, Petrov, etc.), on the other hand,
stagnation they close, as soon as they disappear
abvolent possibilities associated with their su-

schfstvovanie, and turn into ordinary factories

canteens, (Banaker factory, Mussi factory,
r. Nosov). In other areas, however, this

’ than the child’s attention is noticeable, Zalem almost everything is pre-

uria point to the incompetence of their employee
<It is advisable to put the matter on the absence of
request any support from the center. The worst ones, like-
Fegee co-operative and active” elements of the work-
the masses are distracted into the party or’ sending -
en. front Those who remain are unable to go back
cultural work. Center no tool
®m0Y does not give any help, sending only artists,
zokmors, agitators. Need for experienced in-
the surgeons-led is huge. Literally
her, prodiriyatka, gwhere cultural work is carried out
there is no interest in it, they ask the center for an organ-
eizational power; majority in the matter of both
looking for installation work, some for the device
m conducting any specific activities
‘{iruzhkov, courses, literacy schools).

`` I indicate six prediriyatnya (9 in total)"
8 lack of suitable premises. But oh.
Ieyuhu this is a very secondary thing.

Olnamo, despite the commonality of the effects of these
uvtoviy, Toryizing work, the picture of culture-
My desire is not the same in all regions.
'The most seamless impression of isolation'

Memortovsky m Sushsvo-Maryinsky districts.

The frames are: Zahoskvoretsviy. Rogozhek-Simonov-
cue, Presnensky and tea Basmaliy, and me

remember, make up a group © more developed
oh cultural and illuminating work, Doutai
ud Baemanny district, obaluozhnaya to 42f4v-
I call upon the nature of my cultural life,

TP uvountsayag g at the beginning of this chapter ‘table

‚ DEVELOPING CULTURAL-EDUCATIONAL LIFE

faysnam dpot possiblity Itosity is determined -
and "the line between the two intended gaps.
$ then bird. as in Tephoptotek region ku g
chuttaya ripple vekhoteya n% 46.1% air flow-
this". and there are tubes only not #'.1%,; jav
biterskl-Mapyitekhim. pretiruugtiya open-
THIS GOUTUP HEATHYYYNESS, look at it:® 59%,
in imetoltium kaub 197% obuteto chi musla, zaya
fabatov HVUGOY GUIN. bobWEERUTIE - F--
uncle Rogozhescho-Sim-

and

“

No. 5
Novsky: 65% and 35%, for Zamoskvorechye ---
718% and 28.2%, Preni - 80% in
50%. But these data are too general and therefore
They don't talk much.

For a more detailed comparison of the two groups,
Let’s take data for only two areas with
you have the same number of enterprises, leading
those involved in cultural work and related to 'development'
ny groups, specifically in the Rogozheko-Si-
Monovsky and Chefortoveky:

| I'm sorry where am I orgamyuzovay
Eya E
x NA nya.
Districts. E" 55
, I |. E |= =:
Ez* $13 <
Rogozheko-Simonovsk || 13 8| 9
Lefortovsky. . 12 s 3
|

Is this table much more specific? opens
differences in the breadth and intensity of cultural
work in areas of different countries.However; aw
does not exhaust the question.

For Yaefortovsky and similar conditions,
Ushchevo * Maryinsky districts, the most characteristic
Ren doesn't give a fuck himself, their level is very low
educational work, and a determined
the regressive slope of its further development,

`We have already spoken about the complete disappearance of all

interest in cultural endeavors among the Cheforts -
ski workers. There are 3 private clubs in the area.
odla that has ceased to exist
certificates, three enterprises, irekratihoey
reading lectures. In the Sushchevo-Maryinsky district
We are also chatting with closed clubs
(factory Kushinereva, Chista) isnya -
jocdia. $
As for the districts: Rogozhekogo, Zame-
square, Presnensky and Syrlmyaticheskaya,
h0 you can also note a decline in interest there
to hections and low INTENSITY, ‘clubby for.
concepts, but almost nowhere does this lead to their
a new cessation, on the contrary, despite all
the severity of the experience is overwhelming,
knowledge in these areas of which is tenacious, desirable
I'm going to steal all the cultural beginnings
namiye. lvlyayeet voR^bism. Angry no more
prozhipiyatiy promoted to the first pan, wah
PPichimU aziUemvtosti raimty ve. Prohovol-
Slveniyayu zAtUtnechii.. & otetvetvie rukovite-
dey. and they proclaim confidence, WHAT’S wrong with tuklo-^
ryatezyam uz pomttya dezo u their byetoo poilet va
hall This theory is generally accepted by TAZ and KU-
salty, the production was examined. "Experienced

er th
No. 5

®organizers could reverse the work” (from-
talk about working in Zamoskvoretsky). In the report ©
_ In the Oimonovo subdistrict we find: “how me sijl
‚ ancestral yukuizie, yet he is less from-
° affects creativity more than it does
° managers, etc.

_ However, the most interesting thing in the lives of these
_fiovov is the desire of some corpse
” workers to establish cultural and pro-vegetative
‚ work in addition to the center and its instructors, but also
` independently, through mutual unity in
” district and sub-district organizations.
iv blo-zavodsky organizations of cultural and pro-
} ‚introductory left: >>. she's awesome

© fof these active work, thereby
it titates the power of the winding effective meaning
’ shiya. Meanwhile. workers in general are hard-
about holding on to their separate factory libraries

To Kohamn. ty: they K don’t need to go far
make you feel at home there.
° The tendency to refuse is very clear.
‚ an idea from the factory-factory isolation of the Kuz-
” of outsider-pro-evangelist organizations in Simonovo.
Worker with manager "Dynamo", welcoming the pre-
> Chagas discovery in Simanov Ptoletkulmm
district club, said; “What will we be on va-
’ waiting. factory to organize clubs, chairs,
" When is it better to organize an Odia club on
| bass area and work together with everyone" (report e
- vap, "Linamo") - and the same is true: anditokih
” more than Simoniuvsky workers. In low areas
^ treatment of workers of different factories in general
› mhub^sovorltiviiyeyya" flzht, In Ragozhekim royal-
Yves cube pi, head "Lalgaueyu and Kaiser" teboga-
at NizAvalei noharm" into pohoayonny and ob’elinitsya
drink in 66bo working five regional faboia. B
— Zampezhvozetiu takhie potrailioo Meaning of IMORT
^ vgtb poi $2br. Jaco. co-specialist in bo
 uzhtupio-itkevotimilnuyu work weeh
_ FIHZUTH Plehiituieuy. On ibot”e mitAtestnt
TFablkattite khubunte denunciations. Veyo prakhttlya=
ut, located in Solomyatiyaki No. piho-
_ rattih uliPah. egputitiyu”teya in my work
_ JOYURUG URth KUTTUZPO-PIoevotiteyannUuh Pe
^ zmtive potu Then kuba im. Malyata x Kuba
‚tie. Mamaia and Guchbazuttotim binge drinking. The first of the
u titiyaet Five REMEMBERS ARU",
. ‘Roibotvya KlUttoy from KOTOBmH No. zha “Mte”.
_‚ Pb’ruttamiya something 1st sword 1919. PPYACHVI
fitayat kuletuyto-tteoevottimetchoy Par UG
| butalrtsth Mobuyatto-zyatotekh ate. dream
Etz independent care... IMinpiatila

fl

BURN.

79

district association does not go from the house “Ie-
boches of the Commune,” whose members are the real
more active in the entire organizational dz-

Botyo..... No systematic intru-
tions 0t any centers club not me-
radiates" (from a report on the 3rd Basmannaya Group).

Another cultdistrict center, legal club
The Nevsko-Stearin Plant unites in its work
among workers of seven enterprises located in
lo Saltykovekoy lane. and near the Kursk vomzazh.

Experience of Basmanny clubs especially interevgi
nomu that he clearly showed how much m-
the cultural work of the prolesarnat can win,
provided that it unites workers from different
enterprises.

These are the only workers' clubs of all the
carried out the examination, which are responsible
to its true cultural and creative purpose
cheniya. Kalyaev's club is not yet open
its activities are completely and now “impossible”
say what it will lead to. But here's the description
work of the club at the Neveko-Stearin Plant.
The club does not receive any subsidies and has no
no permanent funds. Vee,
what the club is equipped with, built by the labors of its members
new Performances are staged at the club exclusively
entirely on their own, bringing the necessary 95-
the installation is assembled each time according to apartments
working club members. Strictly among the Chayens
labor service is carried out; giver, boundaries
among other things, the opportunity to organize a real club of ideas
a pin for sports and gymnasium. Generally work
the club is expanding and it could be determined
count on great achievements (from that
report). From this extremely friendly and
revival of work - in discussion in the club
large working class circles and their active attitude
in club work.

What is the use of such a sharp difference in
grab the works of ‘Chefortoekiy and Suschevoy
Marynekogo districts on one side, and the district
new, just reviewed, with another? Vo-sing-

out—the gradual fading of the cultural background

ness, secondly, the view of the natural
tired, searching for new ways of culture
otrontekhetvya.

Districts: Zamoskvoletky I Rogozheko-bimu-
new Stimyattimi and. partly Poeevya ©
when the time comes, the place will be ripe
Research Institute of Mostovskaya Gputitoy TustRchi. Poltya vaya
metal pgicheelit and motalliveka PPomtten-
Elelt, sospetotochatya r quiet. They will also rest there
NauPodes twist ttoitiuittiya hohtih otoyayezhy
promuittetii elti > (Mavtlozeham. Poobhopovekle
mamtyaktutt. Inyadel eIostovttum.” "Mint")
In Sushchevo-Maeiteklm vamne and in Lefortovo pre-

1
in their environment cultural and educational

S-O{R-N:

1

+
No. 5

fucking type
aveo.

Meanwhile, workers of large enterprises and
first of all, working metachlists who have business
$ the most elegant and grandiose production
tism, have always been panboleo creative and
active el, meutami nrodetariat, and veogla
nachunya-
"At. met the best conditions for their
vasvitil. The foothills stood out especially sharply -
of this industry. washing high No. last

prodirnya - average me

_ time of industrialized devastation. Metallurgical"
The industrial population suffered less from it than

other ‘branches of production. Ola has been preserved and
are working intensively. Bonzno, with such

‘Zeviah cultural and educational work on

rikah but may not freeze, that’s what we SEE

- in Lefortovo and Maryino.

`With this we finish our _narrative of vulture-
and educational activities of workers. a

tions of the mountains Moscow on the basis of data obtained
Ankotnym examination of them. We have to re- |
fly whatever is possible d)-
fill it with a description of the activities of the central |
organizations of popular and workers' movement.
(080, MCRE). In conclusion, we are still
Let me emphasize once again that TB was brought down, secondly.
We operated, but the qi was to some extent different. I can
were considered neither complete nor accurate, according to |
this is why the picture ‘painted by us’ has a high
ractor of the first, rough draft, those in need |
Gosya in many and significant amendments. I
Questionnaire survey pre-determined by E"
cult, but nothing more than the first intelligence =”
area of cultural activity of the workers of the organization.
nizations, calculating the soil giving more planned |
measured and carefully studied. Case
Poblalnyh entrust chachatuya_
extremely important work.

BURN. 81

— Such art is, in the end, shaped
> the desires of the creator. The desire of the creative hu-
` false is the main base, the main conditional
” forms of this artthis work.
_ The movement also determines the content of the form. Weight
’ desires of the artist-artist, birth in him.
_ are determined by his being, by the stock of perceived

s impressions and sensations with which he
’ refers to each material accumulated in the process.

All life relationships. This. komileke.

sensations largely relate to

_ to social relationships, accepted
form of what we call class peiholo-
gee. Thus, the creative desire
identity in the most motivation to be creative and

\ @the registration process fatally reveals
Class interest, This is equally rela-
<; to all types of existing systems.
| The gi should be marked according to the
‚ I'm moving towards the art of theater, which is brighter than others
($ > nekestev expresses the tsaass essence of art
KATKA, Burzhuzanya through a number of yukitrol-
:. Institutions (censorship, theatrical traditions)
$ tions. advertising, co-curation) directed `"evo-
; bodnye" artist's creativity according to what she wants
channel, and with the revolutionaries of the theater she,
_ standing out growing, rendered support to the theater
| new cash register, this one. poebtine single-handedly alive
° and precisely the bourgeois theater. (Example: Chauvinie-
> stic bacchanalia at the beginning of the war drove out
No. 0 scenes of the roiling leziers all works of non-
© Metsiykh dramaiurgav) . Talented individuals
_ Representatives of the theater were suffocated in
swarm atmosphere of glev, kamlitadism, g of this head-
EeVMosti from antregrener-predirinimalya, fl
"'vasiv receizelts, from Fezgralna. kasst n
FIH art wears on 6666 suffering st-
‚ check. So, Craig dreams of destroying the theater
Kivoto. actors and about replacing it with the Mario Theater
Branches, peace and soullessness” of which in the best
r a: embody the idea of death

Dockpad in the Theater Section of the 2nd citywide
‘conference of Cultural and Educational Organizations
tions.

great content of the art of theater. Su-
Lerzhitsky dreams of a monastery-commune,
where would the actors retire to give work, deepen-
dedicated to her art, away from the noise and
absurdities aroundof life, where 0 all9x
Pilgrims would flock to both sides as if
a new action that cleanses the soul. Farther from life
neither! From a life governed by the stock market, speculative
tion, theatrical box office. And completely
it is clear that they proclaimed the principles: jekus-

for art, because in the surrounding life
they couldn’t find a hotel, didn’t find the need
no support... They, the unaccepted, they, the rejected
for the most part they are in control of these pitiful creatures -
we have done a lot for the art of theater
here. They were the ones who mainly created that tech-
processing of stage materials, comrade
rya more generally, progressive modern theater
"ral culture. By studying this technique, this
culture, we make sure that the most valuable thing in
her 910 ‘pa simple truth that the essence of thea-
‘traditional art is the design of desire.
Taking this as a basis, you can confidently
say h\% find the form of the proletarian tat
can only the working class itself in the process of
kaniya; for art is always movement
dynamism, not peace, metastatic. Nroletau-
The Russian revolutionary staged. ed. proletariat
a number of tasks of colossal scale; the main thing is his
attention is directed. of course, towards the general
public construction, on new communal services -
ical principles, vu despite the huge number
What are the next urgent tasks? himself a worker
Chiy vla. as soon as he threw off the yoke of capi-
talistic oppression, I just felt
he liberated himself, immediately began and

\ building your culture, because in it oh
‘perpetuated his guomad power. So it is in construction

construction of the new theater. That. ‘truly huge
number of dramatic ‘amateur circles’

‚wolves giving birth to her almost every time

9
{

82

Romanian

OTR

No. 5

de, at every factory, at professional
` unions, clearly shows us the will of the working class-
Fa To creating your own theater. Sh many of these
‹independently formed circles wear va
©6bo character of serious and thoughtful work,
the attitude of their members towards their work is searching
specifically. Often oshis don't just want to play, 1.5.
presto “astonish the world with their art,” they
want to create works of art
theater arts. They are on their own, scattered,
they grab the first one they hit
activist, draw him into their midst, provide
financially, wanting to learn from him. I. here
This is where their creative fire often dies.
lania, because in most cases they fell into it
authors who received engagement
from the author's exchange that ended up in the provincial
the schoolchildren who did not teach her a new knowledge - oh
stagovile plants from these tender shoots
new 'art... These' leaders with art
this theater’ had nothing in common, these” 063-
working ‘dilettantes, the prices are often very good
good earnings, vaccinated, workers themselves"
cabbage-like craft of theatrical performance
leniya. And you workers are burdened by this, class
the Internet told them what they were doing
910-t0 But Something is wrong... And some people
pizzas from these circles, intoxicated by the applause
among the undemanding public, they already thought
Shalyatsin and became the same
bad hands by amateurs, what were their sorrows?
directors. But here I must point out that
It’s especially characteristic that where it’s fortunate
The friend was forced to act independently
Actually, mainly due to the remoteness of the district
on. there he had the character of a profound and serious
no work. This spontaneous movement must be
organized. Preletkult, as a class organ-
pizatsiya, could not pass by these creative
vepytov of amateur workers and set himself the task
hacks from these scattered amateurs
ekly circles of creative artists, masters of art
Eva of the Proletarsky Theater. TEO Proletcult
began organizing regional dramatic
special studios where workers could first of all
and learn that technical skill of stagecraft, which
which went to the exalted people of the future theater

ra in Heritage from the old world. In these regional'

coldness attracted its strength, mainly and almost exclusively
in a significant way, from already existing circles
kev at factories and factories.This studio has become
the center of the district's theatrical life. With the most
Benova took it upon himself to organize such a studio
lin from the existence of these paradise working amateurs
some circles. Such a studio is the first
Nenya to practical implementation founded

_ nicks of Proletkult, offering them a larger number -_

_

Prolotareky Theater. Trust and interest, in some way
for whom there are differences in the organization of such
studios of Theo Shroletkult, shows although $s
the fact that 3% of one month of existence
Teo organized 11 studios in different areas of the city.
kind of Moscow, & now we are in the 17th century, on,
of which a good half is divided into ota-
rshayu and younger. Now we are constantly
We receive letters of request. often with category
technical requirement, to organize new studios.
Unfortunately, there is a lack of good instructors
59% >
it is possible to satisfy these numerous demands - 4
phenomena and we are forced to offer t! t, ra-o
We are eager to join already organized studios.
In the matter of creating regional drama studios -
we flew away with a decisive, nicknamed pre -
tive of these studios from the side of the rising guards
circles of provincial actors who have been successful for a long time.
fortress enrolled in the Communist people
you, trying to undermine your authority and
Svov tepzennoe shtetl.” In addition, he collected
patriotism of the regional” cultural: <pro-veti-
private organizations who wanted to take 666l
manages these studios, interfering with the business $
organization of studios. Finally, forming a convoy
rencia professional. Bulturio-proevelig- |
telny organizations whining about delaying the best->
shiz instructor forces to yourself and ranks of workers - >

rial remuneration and’ often food-_
nyek - it got in the way and wasted cash
work, did not give her the opportunity to turn around
the way Theo Proletkultal wanted and could
despite these and a number of other conditions.
in our work, regional studios are steadily in?-_
will conduct their classes on mastering the technique on time |
theater, paying special attentiontion from.
without proletarian criticism. District station-'
does not join the vanguard in the fight" having lost di-.
lechtantism of the bourgeois theater, ‘Ovazyavaya vvae’
influence on all amateur circles at the factory
kahs and factories in the area. |

But the work is only cognitive, that is, practical
the development of the Theatrical Culture of a given time, the development
Bot is working on developing his acting apiary.
work on external and internal technology, then.
Of course, in no way can this
Vitya: You give all this equipment to the worker,
necessary technical 'introductions' he needs
‘for creativity, but it’s the last thing I’m lying about
be the ultimate goal of studio classes; Deut.
a stepping stone for the practical implementation of the horn.
Letarian Theater must appear creatively

laboratories, Central. Dramatic |
Proletkult, where lava would be the worker |

GZOMROEE

83

the ability to produce ideas and searches for theatre-
ral f.rm. corresponding to the ‘proletarian
tsoikhik and new ‘content. E organized
tanoy of the Central Studio, under Theo Iroletkul,.
she, while alone, is already attached to the present
time. Her studio members, in addition to work on the ‘long-distance’
general mastery of theatrical technique, should already
to restrain oneself in creative work. This studio is used=
children are serviced by first-class technicians -
instructors. With her, props are organized =
’ bkaya, dev rativnya, electrical engineering, griz
h > measured, workshops, where the studios will be. study
D. in the process of encountering certain tasks and
‚beta-cart - decorative” side of the theater.
In addition, occupancies will be introduced in this studio

chitic economy, 2) labor movement. ‘and
scientific development. socialism, 3) statement
^ Soviet Roslublika in connection with the world of work
what movement. Vrome fogo is interpreted as news
constant conversations about the theater, which would illuminate
_ Shchaliev questions ‘theoretical; acquaintance” ©
‚ history of cultural forms, history of theater,

history of music, natural-scientific 3a-
oh and in’organization of such a school

_ Dean admits even the studio members themselves, about the Czech
‘testifies the resresolution of the general meeting of the participants

saying: “The general meeting of studio members is dramatic

” two studios of the Moscow Theater Department
— Prodetkult, aware of my responsibility for-
g_tsachi of the creation of the Proletarek Theater, finds that
‘further continuation of classes in a purely school-
_ the scale is not enough ‘and categorically
| orchlori for the creation of the Central Studio,
those best forces from all the studios, being on
_ ®budaret scholarships could” entirely
E dedicate yourself to work in the field of Proletarsky
Theatrical Creativity".
’ Central Studio will highlight the masters
® Halral art, which will be the basis
__ Miami of the first ‘creative collective Prole-
at the zarezha theater
__ Now those 1 in the inner life. district
g _ studio and first of all let's get acquainted with © methods
- _ our commas and with the objects studied in them
fucks her. All these items MUST first
”_ be critically assessed by the proletarian consciousness.
No. of detailed discussion and practical
‚ It is necessary to make the student dependent -
` from the whole team of Khanna district etu-
>’ din. The majority of studios are now divided into older
+8 the strength and youth of the troupe, this division is caused by
_ by the expansion into regional studios of new and new
‚out of workers. Classes are held next day
Wiregram:

y a

on the following public issues: 1) on-

` history of literature, history of life and culture

In non- In pe-,
I share.

I cherish it.

In the younger group. In the older group.

1) Stage management | 1) Stage kills
life (actor's work | new developments)
node, internal type (the work of an actor
acting technique im- ah role I drink
provisions). what? $ bch. imirevization, sketches): | -6

2) Declamalia (ps-
art is expressive
go’ reading becomes artistic-
Veniikh works). |4"

3) Diction ‹ Tsekuetvo
correct
sewing ii slbv,

2) Diction....... 2.

3) Rules’ of art.
CHAONII forge and

4) Plastic:

phrases. 4; &) ritiin 111%;
4, Plastic (suit c), gymnastics 2:5
strictly own the vaults. . s
scrap, make it’ perish- 5) Gram...... py {14

Kim visionary vout-

early omens) 6). Voice stop |2,

a) rhythm 5:
6), gdmiaztika 25 | 7) Decorative art
5) Repeated voice, kubbtwo 2. 2
pursuing a task
develop. before tnahiiliia 8) Lectures on history
voice fedya a
student .... 2"
6) Lectures on history 9) Lekpli on general | -
literature ... 2, | national military 2"
7) "Lectures on general
answering questions. |? .
=_= ——-
Total; 1; |349; What... [24%

I already mentioned at the beginning of my report that
the main, malergal of acting creativity
is a store of his personal impressions of the surrounding
harsh environment. Hence the basic principle
the artistry of the work is sincere-=
artist's identity Anything imposed by others
form fetters the will of the creator, harms the
production of original artistic works
ny, In school studio work we try
create conditions under which you sincerely
student’s phenomenal impressions” in the studios
would be our main task. And the ace? in the lane
First of all, the selection of networking instructors and pre-
suppressive forces, which would be closer
interests and aspirations of the proletariat in its quest
paths to the ultimate class theater. By selection
we must organize a core of such work:
kov of Theo Proletkult, who would provide their
artory More influence and on the so-called o
“specialists” in quotation marks, which we refer to
need to use it now due to lack of
the necessary teaching forces. And in the matter of the organi-
of the teaching staff we pre-
There are magicians. Under Theo, an art festival was organized
Sovot. V. which includes all teachers in eta-
growth of district studios, Council meeting

6*
A -

No. 5

weekly, leverages the entire experience of the district ra-
Photos, tries to outline and resolve pedagogical
ical problems put forward in a completely ©military
different from those that previously existed
Basic and private drama schools, assigned
chami Theo Proletkult. We are trying to accomplish this" -
celebrate collective creativity, which is completely
is not understood by us as a mass action, & kah
process tocollective work, where each member
of this creative team would be a participant
student of creating a work of art,
although only one individual will act.
The proletarian actor’s assimilation of theatrical technology
nicks are carried out in the process of creative work on
freezes the occurrence of certain ‘tasks’; by
On this principle, classes are also being built in the master's
ski. So, for example, a student does not study at all
how wigs are made, and as needed, taking
make the marik he needs for the “traded
image: doesn’t study the costume at all, but makes a s2bo
the specific suit he needs for his
lez vivid expression of the image that he
himself and the entire creative team outlined in the pre-
the process of working on this play, and non-scoring,
improvisation. At these jobs the student is a teacher
not only technology, but he creatively developed it
fights, changing and complementing what he can
serve the fulfillment of a creative task. 0е9-
It is especially important and especially for the working actor"
fully revealed in stage images, design
to remember the class essence: Therefore, the instrument
tora and the entire studio team should be very for-
be diligent and careful about self-identification
Finally’ not easy, ^‘@1sch? barely groping
the form of a proletarian actor. And ‘the right thing to do’
put it so that this self-pouring is oe-
fully resolved in the creation of internal
he has the design of his stage image, and throughout his
visually, ^ including makeup, costume, and
scenery. Inclusion number must be approached from
internal content, appearance should, serve
live to the satisfaction of the internal drawing of the family and s9-
holding prophecies.

The issue with the repertoire is especially acute.
New art plays corresponding

there is no proletarian rage. We are forced into
our works use the old repertoire, -
choosing from it all bearing the stamp xy =
divinity, more cheerful, everything that speaks alive
and struggle. There is rich material in this relationship
gives us the so-called folk art,
In search of a repertoire, we also turned to literature.
tour and poeticworks and other things =
they were instructed through joint efforts.
and studio members. So we were devalued
Verhaeren's poems: "Revolt" and "Yes
Vushka at the crossroads", staged by rasekazlg _
Chekhov: “The Intruder”, “Thieves”, now re-
Gorgeous studio is busy with uncensored russka
fairy tales "Shemyakin Court". From the plays of the working
in the studios I will note the almost finished work of Baeman-
noy studio: the play “At the Lower Depths” by M. Gorky, “big
little girl" by Oetroveky, started in Sushcheveka-
Maryineka studio, "Gannele" in Simonovekaya
studios. According to the conditions of a purely technical property

and mainly due to the lack of Theo Prolot-
These plays are not a cult of their ‘theater’. there could still be.
shown. For creating the repertoire"

The actor himself must take up the theater and develop the
bots over improvisations; we hope that osh
will be born in the crucible of creativity of dramatic schools =
diy Proletkult. Finishing my report
wives pay attention to the section. for those already frequent _
marked by me. abnormal conditions of our _
work that precedes a successful organization
tions of the Proletarian Theater. First - = oteutotvi
of your theater. Theo Iroletkulta as an organization
vlassova, certainly ‘must be simpler’
theater space has been built. Second—Prolet®
cult for the purpose of concentration and o6’edinoniara-
bot, the organization of all -
proletarian dramatic ones. circles and studios, -
currently under the control of “various rt.
tourism and educational organizations, because `
the association will win before the creation of Nroletar-_
sky ‘theater, because organizational experience is not
dispersed, but will be collected and concentrated = e
only then will he have full control \
the opportunity to become the future of the broad masses. at

o d

:

r me Val. Snyshlyaev.

a L AO,
Gore 85

Diya more fruitful activities in the pro-
_ medopia into the zinzn of ideas of Proletkult all internal
”* its primary mechanism is divided into Divisions, in which
which, under the supervision of regular leaders
There will be creative work in various fields
science and arts.

Still great M. Proletkulte organizovanny
the following departments. literary publishing,
theatrical, musical, visual
arts, cabin m economic. All departments
designed according to the same plan:

1. At the head of each Department is Z’avedu Yu-
schiv Otdekhzhom, ‘appointed by the Presidium
‚Proletvulta..

2. The Board is organized by a Board of 5
person as part of the Department Head, Plant Manager
of sections and providers from pietrukt" -
‘roar. teachers and studio students.

3. The Collegium distinguishes itself as Prezidjuch
on the composition of 3 persons with the Manager as ‘
`edited. Ey

4. Board, all instructors, teachers p
_ The elders of the studio form the Department Council.

a Executive. Bureau of Prolotkult estimates
° mandates one of his own to each Department

member who is included: in all bodies of the Department with
’ voting rights.

The composition of the Board and Presidium of the Department is approved
‚are protected by the Iresidium of Proletkult.
< The head of the Okhdel is an administrative

we have Separate and will carry out work based on di-
directive Jen. Bureau. Being:* work manager
Alden as a whole, he ranks first
“wearing 10 to all matters of Otdol © Executor
The Bureau is responsible to him for all work

U

@department. On duties. Presidium of the Department, lies down.

” conducting all his current work, and performing

‹ orders of the Tenancy Bureau and resolutions
‘Leniions of the Board of the Department.

°— The Residenum meets at least once every week

^ zhezhu, keeps minutes of these meetings, reports

® talking about more important decisions of the Board

_ Ftdykha, which approves such, In the event

Design of the Departments of M. Propetkult.

disagreement of the Board of the Division with the resolutions
Nresidnuma, but any questions, okoacha-
Their final decision is transferred to the Enolnitel-
Bureau of Proletkualt, which is generally approved
wants everything. protocols of Iresidnum, Without approval
tion of the Politigation Bureau decisions as Nrezi-
Dpuma and Vollegii Department of Strength do not have:
The Collegium manages the overall work of the Department, pa-
ruling and regulating it in the spirit and sense of the general
Proletkult politics

Competetions of the Collegium are subject to the general body -
nizational issue of the Department and its Institutions.
observation and control of all work, discussion
those and preparation of cost estimates, direction and
monitoring the economic life of the Department, taking care of
close connection between this Department and other departments
Proletkult.

Meetings of the Board take place less than once
per week. The minutes of these meetings approved
yutel Executive Bureau.

Vollegia imost the right to invite to the event
sedalia necessary for her blood pressure and <.
people.

The work of the Department is divided into sections, headed by
which are heads elected by the Collegiate
gy and approved by the Executive Bureau:

Section heads are responsible for their
Work for the Collegium. On their obligation to le-
it execution of all decisions of Kolhepia: 91
Presidium of the Department. They organize and direct
contribute to our work, the output of our section
periodically do 06 these are additional payments of the College ill.
To the Presidium. On nh responsibilities, collaboration © pi -
the constructors and head of the studios is Ustz-
the emergence of the internal routine of studio life in
directions of all work in them in the spirit of general di-
Registrar of the Department.

Please keep an eye on the progress of work in the studios
for the fulfillment of the instructors' assigned duties
their responsibilities" In addition, those in charge of its
tions develop draft rules, intru-
tions, etc., and generally know all the internal affairs
rasporyahiom each but its section.
No. 5

86 : TRADE

Iyalya water supply for general office management at
Each department has a sepretariat. at the head
6 secretary, who is elected by the Collegium and
approved by the Bureau of Interpretation. In obligation
The duties of a custodian include: &) maintaining protocols

‚ meetings and meetings of the Board of Directors
hiuma Pull them aside and direct them to execution?
6) disruption of the secretary section,
setting up its work and monitoring the correct
at full speed ‘66; c) prize. visitors on business
Department and providing them with the required information: d) information
Another publication on the share production of the Department and 38

let us include clerical red tape etc.

bureautratism,

Periodicallythe secretary makes reports on
its activity and the state of affairs in the Department
Irosilium beach of the Collegium of the Department,

Kazzhlaya septsil washes the slobgo ‘secretary, de-
whose identity and duties are the same; what and
Secretary of the Department, only on a smaller scale,

Ilubny_ Department.

Primelli “elnyu lo general plan popetruction
Ozdelikv is organized and the Public Department of M. Pro-
in, „1

‚ “His governing body, ‘responsible. 38
I do_ the work, `is the Collegium. out of 5 those in
quality

Head of the ‘Department’ (AA; In

'Shrodotav. lecture section. (S; S. Erivtsov):

Provided repertoires vvshnii: (V. I; Arvatov).

Tijudetav. from instructors (G, 1. Ginzburg).
’Iredetav. Art. Mop.-Bureau (L.I: Eemenskaya).

Members of the Collegium share among themselves the leadership of
I flew away with questions about life.

The declarations of Bollegia come together less than once =
then once a week; Things are going to be simple
with a majority of voices. Each entry must
Fucking filled with protocol ‘approved’
Polish Bureau'

- Directly at the Club Department
nal body - the Council, the composition of which is encouraged
members of the Collegium, members of the Constituent 10+
ro, working in the Zhlubny Department, voslinetru-
ra; secretaries and representatives of the Board of Directors =
nykh and factory clubs, served
from Nroletkult, and tahike producers of cereals
industrial production associations (prof. union
call) and provided by the Elubny" Department of Vovitog"
Commissariat of the Comrade of Moscow:

The Council has the right to co-opt knowledgeable persons.

“The task of the Council is to provide information
tion about the disrepair of club business in places and
life by deceiving missions as principles

`

‘I’ll sculpt the Club that’s in line with my hands}

‘zavoloz; located at the district office. Remote
In Blub's absence - blame the trouble
is a painful obstacle to our thoughts

both practical and practical questions
gods. -

District Department Nar. 0br. has the right to hide- 4
from the meeting of the Council of these pre-data
Controversial issues between the Council and Zhodlegiya
are introduced with Nesi's permission. Bureau.

Attendance at Council meetingseta a
K m bovs and shitructors are a must.

Council meetings take place less than 23% of the time
Per Month.

Vlubny. The department organizes workers in the regions
pubs or take on yourself ‘work in pubs, already
existing ones, for which he sends them to the regions
instructors, takes you within the range of: °
expenses for repairs and equipment”
node club and then puts on a vulture-creative
part of the work of the club—chairs, circles, lech
tions, koptserts and epehtakli forces >
m.

’ The club department provides members. Ava
complete scope for DIY, leaving

behind you lil general: vozhetyo and ‚ subscriber
for conducting work in the spirit of Pro:

lasts from the general Proletkutta yen, for
the last remains the praro of the convocation of the General Assembly -
meeting of club members to discuss ideas in
millet,

If you find out that Sobrapie is not on oloropa
Proltkultau is the last, exchange club.
stops the stink of evoto. work, in proto ohm those.
case" › for sale › re-elections ^ G
Instructor of the Club Calf, joint venture
management of the club, directs the ongoing work of the club
ba and have the right to control the pad” by holding no.
zoizni ipetruktor-etetsiolistami plans =.
methods of work developed at the center.

Studios are an organ, pokhchitenivtm

Using general directives, we get
eootvettschikh calvings of Proletvkhlt, |
in the first steps of the development of Club House.
planned the organization of district clubs, but this
idea, as the winter of 1918-19 tenge had...
there was a collapse. First of all; club wallpaper

the whole ‘rayot’ should be in the center of it, those: =]
territorially 'rave' distance from the milestones of the factory 2

club. workers.

The second reason for failure © district ke.
bugs are impossible when fuel is running
crisis. heat the wet rooms ed
etva of the Department, which deprives the snake of its power -
carry out evil work there no matter what: or “about

88

BURN;

87

` So it was, papr., in the Zamoskvoretsiy district.
But the idea of ​​neighborhood clubs came from bro.
“t and go to” Thoughts 06 of the organization ‘babryach-
‚ in factory h subdistrict clubs, ° INODRION
th club, serves a small area of the district
MA, if possible© several, close
sliding into each other, factories not produced
PUSH. o z\
This completely destroys the first p]e-

‚< pasbrvio, vol.-5. distance range, but in pain-
There have been many cases when a club in a factory building
oh and then p. rtoros - lack of fuel. So,
c The most practical and successful with real

o ь Zhlortyakh is the factory club,
> located in the building of a factory
serving nearby enterprises, successful
_ NIM kah in terms of fuel, ‘thaw pos
<thought it is convenient to visit him,
’ during the past winter M. Prologkukht
club bodies:
Sushcheveko-Maryinsky, with 4 st.
osh dramatic, choral, musical and
figurative nonsense.
No. Basmanny with studios: templetichesvy
5 ra and fine arts, _
_ _ Aamovnichesky - dramatic school.
E. dawn howl, Ilyina - for now
` ъ0 choral studio. At the last two clubs
I have to stop in a little more detail,
`The Hamopvichemo district club is open at the factory
Tike Tobner in close proximity to
factories of Givartoveki and Zempalatvya. Departing
\lub il olloy factories", near two other enterprises
at Arlene, the Club 'Department hoped that the work
No. let me tell you that the club and studios will be
”_ - the workers of all three factories are looking forward to what
r was silent, there was agreement from the indicated factories.
”_ Well, the truth shattered these hopes: ‘here
Tiiiiittoee patahinuteya on invincible
- Kolaratism. Workers at the Givartovekogo factory
They wanted to work in the club and studio of Gübäöröröt.
_ In general, the workers of these Factories did not show any special
› AI in Proletkult and its ideas. Club
This Itukhia was empty, work was sluggish. Increased
” TO THINK that work in Zompalatka is going on every day -
RM, from 3-0 hours, and that factory. Gübner and Gival-
__ Moeohogo worked in the basin in the evening, and now it’s cool
› navlivattey, it is clear that he is a member of the Gübner club for now
“Purely the culmination of the century of creative work in
‚ lucky: it won’t be possible,
in og In Khamovnichesky. area of another 'club.
3rd moment as instructor of this area already
_ Melutlya negotiations about this with the workers of Eshchepeat-
about general Preparations of the State Duma. Paper Straight factory club.
ki 6. Ilshna opened June 29, 1919 Club
_ The work here is well and firmly established.

managed

at
5

We have to think about organic

A little work is explained how. "2do-
availability of the ‘club, and in the summer time it’s open-
tia, when all the work is done from the premises
news about the neighboring air, besides, opening
sovnalyu club © studio closure for summer
IPULS, ke

I'll be out in the winter. lekiits were read, . great
circle work, performances and concerts were staged
nerty. Development of a program for concerts and their implementation
The stop is the responsibility of the allocated 28.
Club Department of Repertory Theater. Until now
but" several exemplary pro-
gram, two rovolutiopic, two dedicated to Gu-
Gol and Pushkin, “Eastern”, dedicated to the mu-
zyyuye voetozhiu “Vesegiyaya” - images of Russian rocks
Zoya and three programs for the Red Army soldiers, expressed
organized by the Voncert Commission of the Musical
Otdeha with the participation of Repertory Sekpiy. Ispolii-
the roofing felts were mainly studio people and, I’m lying
Moreover, invited persons. Overall
club life went on sluggishly.

Allowing workers to go for food,
when almost n® gay is entirely working Moscow
needing in Simbirekuyu lips., forced to tighten
opening times of clubs and chairs until the end of September
September But M. Proletkult took advantage of the
strong freedom of the summer period for preparation
detailed work on 1st autumn.

Giving you to have your frame reliable
instructors at Proletkult were released
three-month instructor courses with additional
single two-week propaganda chickens
yourself. 60 people attended the full course. Odia
3 of them dispersed throughout the province to work there
in luhz and principles of Nroletkult; others--mo-
squitches, transfer to those enterprises that have them
sent on a business trip. Their task is to establish
the implementation of cultural and presbytial work under ‘ik.
iredpruitilkh, third, namely stipenchiates Pro-
Letkult, after a two-week vacation, began
already" to work in fayons,

In addition to the organization of Instruztorekih Kures, `The Jaub Department did a lot of work in the summer
on a questionnaire survey of cultural education"
telial activities of factory-factory districts
new, this survey was extremely interesting -_
nym and provided a lot of bottom data, which
The Club Department took advantage, marking the work.”
in autumn. | r. |

As a result of the examination, the Club Department for-
established connections with the workers of factories and factories and
We started to organize the following clubs. _

It was convened in the Simonovsky district. induction-
a group of representatives of our factories Si -
Monovo subdistrict, membership is being recruited
club, the renovation of the premises is finishing. Pre-

b: H

—
88 EZOR-EYA

No. 5

steps have been taken to get the best in the sub-district
premises of "East 0-va". Convening a general meeting
Frascia and the opening of the club is scheduled between 15--
September 20. We stopped in Rogozheky district
from the Goujon factory, having a g chdu, covering not
How many factories, organize a sub-district club.
@lack of more suitable premises
scheniya forces to remove the refugee, cherzvyanny
barracks, the adaptation of which (mainly
furnace), will cause repair costs not
less than 100,000 rub.

— |

Chefortovesky district began to organize.
tion of the club at the district youth union and submitted
statement to the Russian Council on the transition to the monument
Blagushineky Club M. Ts. R. V.

According to the resolution of the Ex. Proseulti Bureau
I will decide not to open studios outside clubs,
existing studios are not roaring in the newly opened
built clubs. In this regard, the previous east:
studio members about to resume after the break ra--
the bot will be re-registered with the participation of the club
plentiful instructors and club boards.
MOH

International Bureau of Propetku Pita.

k.

“During the 1st Congress of the Shi International,
‘after private meetings with delegates of individual
countries and official joint meetings were
The Temporary Bureau of Proletkult was organized.

‚ It included representatives of the following countries:
Mac Lane, Quelch (England), Lefebvre (France),
Herzog, Hartel (Germany), Tomani (Austria), Bom-
Bacci (Italy), Var-Van Verstraeten (Belgium),
Sieber Prose, Bringolf (Switzerland), John Reed
(America),\. Lunacharsky, V. Polyaneky (Roseia),
Langset (Norway).

The Bureau elected an Executive Committee of seven
Members: A. Lunacharsky (chairman), V. Polyan-
Sky (Secretary), McLane (England), Lefebvre
(France), Duke (Germany), Bombachai (Italy).
Amber Droz (Switzerland).

In terms of organizational issues, those gathered
putteln passed a resolution: “According to the proposal
Central Committee of the All-European Council of Pro-
letkult, we discussed the great problem of struggle
34 proletarian culture and decided to create the Time-
noe International Bureau of Proletcult-

The Bureau's first task will be to disseminate
principles of proletarian culture, the creation of an organiza-
nizations of Proletkult in all countries and preparation
World Congress of Proletcult.

The International Bureau of Proletkult accepted
an appeal to workers of all countries, entitled:
“To the proletarian gatekeepers of all countries.”

“Proletarians of all countries, unite.”
To brother propetarians of all countries.

_ The youthful elite seizes power not for its sake
herself. On the contrary, its ultimate goal is destruction
veyakov state, and he uses power only
in order to, by eliminating class differences,

town between people to create conditions for clean
public with a complete denial of the power of individuals
centuries over man.

But he does not seize power for the device.
economic life. Man lives for this
only to arrange your material life.
Material life is only a prerequisite for ‘barking?
spheres of human activity in which he can
blacken the highest, most creative happiness
for higher forms of cultural activity. Semi-
bourgeois economist Gobeon perfectly expressed
this thought. He said: “Like a walk or a night
is gradually being mechanized, and people are freer
comes from the need to devote one’s _ attention to
mania, so definitely someday activity.
the economic one will be relegated to the new eras
culture and assigned ‘almost entirely to etal-
long shoulders of the machine. Man will remain in sulfur
scientific, artistic and butnormal creativity
stva".

Mo had Friedrich Eigelje in Windows when he,
economic materialist, spoke of jumping out.
kingdom' of necessity in the kingdom of freedom, which
is a social revolution. chat |.

But if these thoughts are not attributed entirely.
future to complete the social revolution,
10 they, of course, should only be applied ©
known restrictions for its first etios.
There is a struggle for power here, including civilian
war is the very first task, and they didn’t eat
her, it would be a great mistake to give away
property attention to other subsequent for-
dachas y.

But it is unthinkable to wage a civil war, no
allowing at the same time some economic
tasks, war and economy are intertwined between *0-
the fight is inextricable. |

>
ORN.

The same reaction will be made to the front of the proletarian culture.
” tours. I beg you to forget him even at the very moment
#the height of the bloody feud for approval
roleplayer of power. `How you can’t fight a war outside

‘certain economic circumstances, so
| I mean the benefits of poisoning the final ‘destruction’
bourgeois world, without launching a struggle for pro-
Detar culture. Impossible. ears -class-
new division of society without overcoming indie"

dualistic culture. ;

Political and economic denunciation
shows the great masses as a condition of liberation
spiritual.

Due to historical development, the proletariat's neck
to its ultimate goal, world communism—
” through political and economic struggle.

Now, with historical inevitability, it forms
xiam workers' front of struggle, revolutionary
—_ kulgurpo-creative.

WE ARE THIS; scientific socialists, I strive

`maes;

> Movement for proletarian culture, giving
to “The opportunity for the pro-etariat to reveal the maximum creative
< some activity, must be imbued with combat `
G ‚tea with class envy, organize ‘@go_ feeling-
: and ‘etva pri pomotsi vozoto art and transform
to its household activities in a new spirit, truly
ah '4yu. letarekom, Comm ipeticheskoe.

^^ Nelba will force the old writers,art-
oh, tah! or ‘otherwise ‘whitewashing Buryasian
tubas as exponents of proletarian culture,
r: - her ego would be a falsification. We led
And the keeper of the task” is possible

TV your fight for a new, proletarian culture
The proletariat will naturally take control of everything and

A

E ®
Her A,

`arts, - as from

_ lay a solid foundation for the spiritual. development

with the ^_municipal spirit. Its goal is to arm the workers

ah
Mouth

on the basis of a communist economy and comrade-
celestial efforts in collective labor and struggle

This is why Russia, for example, in difficult years
her struggle had to be given to the known
amount of knowledge and power to the nomic I
cultural and therefore in all its
width. and.

Prig oto vozuoyano" “it was easy” to brush it off
from the subtlest forms of culture, literature to art
luxury ‘for such a heavy
time, like from flowers and fruits that can
will only appear much more, O proletarian
this summer. > UC Che”

No! Art, - proletarian "in adrovla,
novel, song, piece of music, work—
are a hugely powerful propaganda medium, to
Art also precisely organizes feeling, like
ideological propogida - thought, but feelings,
will. with no less force, as... ideas. URANUS

On the eve of October: WHO
first' Conference of proletarian pulturvo-pro-
lighting organizations and it was laid down.
formation of an organization called “Prodetkult”.

Prolotcult has undergone great development, as
Worker's uniform } ‚each. only. pro-
letariat sonladel” _ power in. ‘giant’ face.

"Numbers. } this relationship in vysty AR
eloquent. :

Number of workers organized in Shrolet-
cults of Roesia, grouping her district of Russia
Proletkult, less than 400 thousand, of which 80
thousands were not just crushed into action, but 9"
participate in different studios.

State, plekolto ie steevaya prairies, se
values their unconditional independence very much
He helps them through amateur activities and larkoko.

Prolezkuli" publishes 15 magazines in Russia; ov
published up to 10 million copies of his literature
tours, etcand belonging exclusively to the author.
Tara ‘pmsateley and’ about 3 million ekamil-_
roses of various musical works\laimenov-
tions that are a product of the creativity of the proletarians -
Chinese composers. There are also ‘proletarian-
skie artists p.o. 1 r

_ Russian proletariat, forging #8 < first
pores, in the early ‘spring’ of resolutions, free

E^; at ; NI
. + me and

weapon of struggle against the bourgeois world, the svolkh is calling
European comrades to enter into this relationship
on that path: The proletarians of Europe in abundance
education stands above Russian comrades n
in Western countries, the long-distance Kuzgura will be able
x ori is whiter with a lush color, The point, however,
' Thief, & by mutual’ power, In
In a sharp high building choialietiche-
} in. U.:
ral Committee "Veorovyoyyekogo Prote-
vulta, using” sozy vou 2 opgrevea 111 Interna-
*” Pionala in Moscow, together with 6 delegates
Congress, created Promonov "International Bureau
^_ | Shroletkult and its Executive Committee,
x Unpolished Kaet refers ‘to the pro-
2 tariam weight. tran with the desire to ‘arrange in
ka trans Conference dedicated to the pro-
in Arsk culture, discuss this issue in the press and
at waning meetings, begin to organize
feeds the wide network of Proletvult, so that in the future
you convene some Oro of the cult.  —
| Nutrition Committee
_ indicates your help; the messages of the material have been washed away,
yy and t latoratory, we will support constant
‘oral Swazi, etc.

it; th < warrior

E "IN_
o.
9" ©

‚ V. Duke.
RV. Lefebvre.
E V N. Bombacci. at
Ia's leg
Moscow.

The world council should, although only just.
later the Russian proletariat, begin to.

wellcom. the cause of creating it in many countries
etcults,

LONG LIVE WORKER SOLIDARITY
WHOLE WORLD.

`YES: HELLO FIRST STONE, by.
FALSE IN 'OBMOVU COMMUNITY BUILDINGS
STIC CULTURE"

LONG LIVE THE COMING Zoe
PROLETARIAT!

`Executive Committee of Meiduiarodiogo'

`Prodetvulta:.

Leader: 4. “Lunachareky,
Secretary: B; a b
Members: W. Mac Lane.

13 August’ 1990,
AI CHI, CV

"XGOOD WORD."
Lito N.K.Ts. No. Kommersant.

In the preface to the magazine, the editors write:
“artistry is the main measure of editing
tion" and then: "the editors consider it necessary to change
Rocko open his pages giving all directions

"and schools."

First, about the first position. If
main measure. editorial is artistry,
oh I ask him what kind of art and
What is the criterion for it? Either this artistry
there is some absolute then, who would give the editors

’ mandate to own it.

Because artistry is a very relative thing
strong (that’s exactly how the editors should think
Marxist and communist magazine), &
then you have to be the direction. In fact:
twenty years ago symbolism existed and was active
active, he is dead today. as a routine, it means for
of our fathers, he can be an example of artistic

(Vremennik

least. IF

_ vengeance, for us symbolism is a symbol of decline
in # art, recitation in life, & therefore not art
E*. harshness. Meanwhile, the editors are interested in
ri “everything connected with the communist ideal in
m of life." I ask the editor: can hu-
E]

pre-digestive-reactionary organize life
but new. The editors, of course, will point out the style
wish of Balmont of blessed memory, pomz-
written in the magazine: “knock, knock of a hammer.” Well, what
well, if it’s boring, stringy and fake, like
and the re-beautiful author himself, a work of language
’meet for the editors an example of the connection between art and

en

= +

The whole point is that: “non-partisan art
_ the editor's only need is to
To save your non-nartiness. |
| The magazine really opened its pages
_ all directions. And what happened?
Next to the poetry of Comrade Gerasimov, the chameleon Bal-
cop, near “150.000.000” Mayakovsky - on
_ sings alli- for two and a half pages
_ Luyu, decrepit in body and soul, Vyach. Ivanov, Mark
’ sist Fritsche explores the plot side of sopnal-
_ a flurry of novels in England, and then I. Kuzko-Musiya
the unappeared Pythea, inadvertently separate from the sle-

B© RE

revolution, thenbut of course there’s nothing to talk about. ‚

No. 5

Bibpiography.

blows to all mystics, uttering the arcs of truth.”
And the question naturally arises, what does he want?
magazine. If he sets his goal mechanically -
a reflection of the revelations as a result of the revolution,
let him not justify himself “by the standard of artistry =
", if he seeks any influence -
< for modernity, strives for steel
in a known area as an organizing center, then you
the path chosen by the editors is not good for him.

Nowadays, becoming not cold, but sticky
necessary.

A-—A (or or) is Fort zn Mena
carry.

. G. Aral

SEMYON FOMIN “Pipe.” Poetry. M. State
Ed. 48 pp. 9 r.

Semyon Fomin is a peasant poet, not so much
a toiler of the earth, inspired by the work itself
her, how much of a lover of rural nature and 0b-
settings of village life. His perception is de-o
jealous is already an intelligentsia perception, re-
acceptance of a person long and forever cut off from
land and peasantry; he separates himself from the “on-_.
kind" and is looking for a "fusion" with the aim among rye.
honey smell, near the shores of quiet waters. He still has
the memory of his blood connection is alive. with the ground;
Thomas, my great-grandfather, was an orator...

Father great-grandfather stripes

Plowed and got rent...

My native fields are my flesh...
(Pedigree?.

Th from the earth and bt of these Khedov legends the poet
takes his inspirations;
.. From them,
Like from a soundless source,
My ingenuous verse murmurs,
(Rhodoslevma").

But the poet is already in a foreign village in his mood.
He is just a “wanderer”, passing by or
MZ Window reader. °

x
oh:

, . 83

Tore off the arable land from the umbilical cord,

(from your breasts, earth, dear mother,

I walked around the world bold and fearless,
(by strong will the joy of looking for a new one.

(From the ground).

Semyon Fomin is sensitive and expressive
ruins the life of rural nature. “And to me That-
the Lord gave the living - haaza and sensitive hearing, "
the poet says about himself. Joy is close and understandable to him
father and arable land defrosted by the warmth of spring. Mo
I guess he's just admiring it or he's intelligent
"prays" on both sides. old peasant clothesfrom the holet and, artificially taking it easy, drinks, “like
weigh holy water with a maple ladle at the cross.”
(In the Trinity Lavra).

Anizhka Semyon Fomnna—all about the old village.
and he imagines her as a festive l
peaceful, pious and naively believing. touches-
“I am the quiet and modest beauty of the countryside
childbirth. The dark sides of country life -well-
waiting and rivalry. stratification of the rustic
population and internal feud. fanny n^-
structure and ignorance, superstition and crime
-we hung around on the sidelines in his presence. Also in Art.
rona real real life remained m
in and-footed poems about war and revolution.
There's nothing in them. except indefinite. sorrow
blood and destruction, or equally indefinite
great tenderness before the grieving and tortured family
length and uncertain delights of the future

` butts and hopes for universal example. And here
He has the same intellectual-populist pas-
structures of prayer, repentance and worship. _

battle the world scourge!

Broken icon-—

Tormented Rus',

My soul is in turmoil,

I pray for you. th
Before the crimson glow

Your mournful face froze.

I fell to your wounds

And suddenly I realized the secret,

You are a fairy tale, you are an epic. ] }
In the twinkling of the eternal stars.
Forgive me like a son,

I give up on the past.

From the side of poetic technique Semyon Fomiya
successfully combines simplicity with originality in
images of poetry and other inventive media
stvah; His verse is light, the rhymes are clear
varied.

Out of ignorance or oversight, it crept in
how many errors, both against the meaning, tah and against
language. “The sky is blue like water lilies”; says
poet, while it is known that water lilies are yellow
colors." “She turned red like an amethyst”— meanwhile, the Kli
amethyst—purple hue. “In a silent flame”——
language errors. “A month in a happy circle”:-—
in the sense of a circle, environment. whereas in Russian
tongue circled - a device for drawing
circles, or, in ancient usage

tavern “The forest was filled with chervonets in a shaking state. beta"

syntactically incorrect: lastwords
relate to cart riding, as discussed in
the previous line. There are just iudaceae,
unclear expressions, for example: “I can’t stop the fields

Klavdiya Lavrova.”

\
Department of the Union of Writers "Piteraturny"
Front“.

In connection with the undeniable victories of the proletariat,
in the broadest words of the Russian intelligentsia, hitherto
in the context of a hostile proletarian revolution, pro-
comes a turning point, sometimes even the worldview
vision:

It is characteristic of the proletarian revolution that
intellectuals who have destroyed themselves with advanced forces,
ev spiritual leaders, in particular, artists ©lo-
wow, they're trundling along right now. tail of the philistine “Maos.
To what extent do we welcome the spiritual turning point in
the intelligentsia as a whole, so should be careful
and is also critical of the activities of
of the former leaders. These people are, at best, stoic
who stood aside during the dark days of Soviet Russia, those
they quickly change their masks and colors and,
To avoid losing in the future, they try to make
speak in a co-munistic language alien to them.

This is how a new danger grows before our eyes.
——the danger of dominance in the field of art
literature from the spiritual philistinism. In his
time. under the banner of the fight against philistinism in art
quality many representatives of the intelligentsia walked

corpse, carrying out their inherent narrowly individualistic

logical, pointless revolutionary tendencies.
Organization of the fight against bourgeois ideology Ro
in all forms must pass into the hands of those who
firmly stop on the platform of the revolutionary arc-
sism. Deepening and expanding the influence of the revolutionary
iconic Marxism in art is the basis of our
bots of the “Literary Front”.

“Yaiteraturpyiy Fropt” does not put pa-evey ziz-
exchange of regular denial of everything pre-revolutionary

‘art, but strives to free art from

those methods, forms, and moods that do not correspond
welcome a new perception of life, supporting

#

*

all types of artistic creativity, especially
in content and form of the new communist
agriculturalism. RU

For this purpose, the “Literary Front” examines the weight
already established ande emerging currents and
art and uses the edema they developed
tips for encouraging healthy creativity. With this
from the exact point of view of the “Literary Front” ‘take advantage!-
sa and long experience of classical literature and pre-
achievements of all the latest precisions in the soup.

We are only the instigators of the waist, “aovitiative
this group of the future union of word artists.

Without setting any limits in the choice of forms, we
we put forward a specific goal: organized, ®
difference from partisanship, fighting as a united front
for vommunizi. b
Those who join our union will be

strong discipline of a common goal. | E

Calling all communist writers into our ranks.
nists and sympathizers, we will especially dissect
wabm on the mighty, still awakening
original forces of workers and peasants, future
creators of artistic expression.

V. Fritsche, N. Meshcheryakov, A. Lunacharsky, N. Bu-`
Kharin, Mikh. Pokrovsky, Angarsky, V. Polonsky,
V. Popov (Dubovskoy), V. Mordviikii, K. Novy
cue, Iv. Filipchenko, V. Veshiev, E. Khersotsekai.
Mich. Shimkevich, Kl. Lavrova, V. Kirillov, M. 1
Morozov, Rossinsky, P. Kuzko-Muzin, 0. Litog-
skiy, S. Vasov-Vorkhoyantsev, A, Serafimovich, P.
Kogan, M. Gerasimov, V. Meyerholl, S. Lopayatev,
I. Kasatkin, R. Ustinov, Chizhevsky, N. Povaror..

For any information please contact the secretary

engraved

Temporary Peptral Bureau comrade. M. Shimievich_

Scrap seal, Nikitsk. bulg., 8 (3rd eta, book.
2), daily, from 83-10 pm. ,

<

I

sy ©

No. 5 BURN. "I

TYPOS NOTED:

Printed: Needed: Printed: Needed:
5 etr., 17 pp. at the top you hate you hate. 9 pp., 17 pp. on top gun guns.
19 „HYMN hymaami. 38, 45 below tasly” „white“.
=" " " y "
RG m ‚„ Zhymnami Dymaymi. „ „ 20 „about static bridges.
U 5 and You smile. E VA" on top of the stanza's otropha.

| NEW EDITIONS -
ShFosnevsky Proletkult

(Moscow, Vozdvizhenka, 106)

‚ Monthly oulomoadito Peteraturny Political
Journap

_ CREATION

first number)

PLAYS

"REVOLUTIONARY REPERTURE:

1) Avenger. Dramatization (based on a story by Claudel) in
manom action of V. Pletnev.

2) Incredible, but possible. A play in three. actions
V. Pletneva.
V. HORN

Contents.

‚-_ Page
<. Obradovic - On the Sparrow Hills?
ZICHOTEVORENIYA ao and chi 9
Yo/. "Chframeev - The Road. Poem-
aya m
V. Llexandrovsky—Mother. Poetry
V. Llexandrovsky - Wings. “Poem-
7

zvorenye pis ii

V. //letnev—Spring song. Story. 10

L. A Rechegtov-Volzhekiy - Sub-ensign
Konogorov's box. Story. . ... 13

B. "Arvatov—Leonardo da Vinci. I

A. “Lavrova - Poetic speech by P.
Oretinakh aya 2737

“L. /1asimovich—On the question of the character-

re Turgenev's creativity. . . 40

“Anorei Bely—On rhythm. (47

—

Published by the Moscow Proletkult.

. [Lletnev - About collective creativity {
S: Oh sa a,

M. Grigoriev - Stage techniques
impact on the viewer in plays
Chekhov wow. y. 69

(.—Cultural and educational ra-.
Bot of the Moscow proletariat: . 7!

Val. Smyshlyaev—Report to Teatral-
ny Section of the 2nd Citywide
Conferences Cultural-Enlightenment.
significant organizations... .. 81

Design of departments M. Proletkul-
S o HER Che IR

International Bureau of Proletkult. 89
BYABLIOGRAPHY: ie: oao

- Declaration of the Union of Writers “Litera-

“Tour Front”..... 94

Advertisements and: sora g d

Editorial: Editorial Board.
Price 90 rub. “

Edition

Moscow Propetkult.

R, V. Ts. Moscow. 5000 copies printed.