And!

its m Zhrdetarii bseh fear, unite!

And."

__ MALTA.

MONTHLY MAGAZINE.

(CONTENTS: ‚
those F.I. Kalinin:
y P.K. Bessalko. ,
A. Lunacharsky. From memories. about deceased fighters for the proletarian
‚Culture-
V. Polyansny. Labor army.
J. Bogdanov. ° Essays on organizational science. Art. 4=I.
V. Polyansky. Two poetry.
4. Bogdanov. {Simplicity or simplicity?
B. Areatov. Paths of the proletariat in fine art.
P. Nerzhentsey, The Struggle for the Socialist Theater.
F. Kalinin. “Labor school in the view” of the average. worker.
. m To the convocation of the 2nd All-Russian. Coif. Proletkultov.
Khronina, Abroad. Congresses. In the province:
` bibliography.. ` I. Salofyev. “Dynamo poems.”—-P. Bessalko: “Diamonds
East"... - A. Solovyov. "Flying. - S. Imonin.
"Red Banner". — “Collection of the Rybinsk Proletkul-

ta." - In: Fritsche. "Proletarian' poetry." ‘= V. Lvov-
Rogachevsky. “Poetry of the new Russia”. — Vandervelde,
“Socialism and ‘art’.” —= I. Bessalko and F. Kali-
nin. “Problems of proletarian culture”, - R; Pelshe

. “Morals and art of the French revolution*.” =— “Artistic
natural life" and "Fine arts*."
B; Bryusov. "Science in verse" p

No. 15 14.

January - March 1920

STATE PUBLISHING HOUSE.
MOSCOW:
|P 23

State

t BPICHNAYA_ LIBRARY Mara of all countries, unite!
s Ya in St. Lennigrad |

aya Culture.

MONTHLY MAGAZINE. “ 23
Organ of the Center, Committee of the All-Russian Council of Propetcult. —

Address of the editorial office and office: Moscow, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 26-30. 1 4 8 1
Reception with the editorial secretary daily from 10 am to 4 pm.

No. 13-14. — January March. 1920

g r ? No.
$ CONTENTS: Full name Cllinia. PC. Bessalko. — From memories of G
deceased fighters for prolegarian culture. 4: Lunacharsky. -Labor Army |‘
V. Polyansky.—Essays on organizational science.” Art. 4. A Bogdanov. - Two poetry.
V, Chyulyanoky. - Simplicity and or sophistication? A.’ ‘Bozdanov.—Ways of the prolegariat in’
figurative. art. VB. Arvtov, The Struggle for a Socialist Theater.
P. Kerzhentsev.—Labor schoolin’ the pre-detail of the average worker. F. Kalinin.—
To the convening of the 2nd All-Russia. Conf, About Letkult.-Chronicle of “Proletkult”: Abroad-
tsey. Congresses. To the province. --Bibliography: And Sadofiev. "Dynamo Poems". B, 10-.
r smyaneky - Bessalko.) “Diamonds of the East”! V. P--sh. GA, Soloviev: “Flights”
S, Shmonin. "Red Banner". V. Pius. Collection of Rybinsky. Proletkult.
V. P-ii._V. Fritsche. "Proletarian poetry*: V. G. V. Lvov-Rogachevsky. "Po-
“Esia of New Russia”. I. Rudokot, 9.7 Vaiderveldo. "Socialism and Art".
Paz Lebedev—P. Bessa'ko and F. Ka'inin. “Problems of proletarian culture.”
${ bt. Krivtsov.—Pelshe. 5Morals and art of the French resolution“: ` BT. 'Yoriv-
\4 rub. 406.—I. Life.” "Fine Art". LP.. Miner.—
EH, V. Bryusov. “The Science of Verse.” 0' Brick.

F. I. Kalinin.

Another irreplaceable loss; a beloved comrade died at a combat post
Fedor Kalinin. When, many years from now, the historian will illuminate the stormy
the events of the great years of the proletarian revolution, which laid the foundation
ment of the new ZAUR, he will dwell with love and interest on the appearance
F. Kalinina.

This is not a “leader” in the generally accepted, suggested way. bourgeois. ideo-
logical sense in which. represent the many colorful and vibrant figures of our
combat ‘period; the appearance of the “leader” is the creation of an obsolete individualistic
century of capitalism. F. Kalinin the creation of a communist worldview
to the zarb of this new era.

His whole appearance, all his activities are so closely fused, welded together with the tasks
and the aspirations of his class, which it seems that it is not he who creates, but through him who speaks
The mass itself thinks, thinks and acts. In the personality of F. Kalinin there is an unconscious
sure, but... clearly personified what he wished with such thoughtful love
identify and tell fellow workers F. Kalinin through. ‚„Fly-
cult" the spirit and creativity of the new rising class.

Proletarian by birth Kalinin ©. I went through a harsh childhood
school of hired labor. Together with the masses, he drank the bitter cup to the dregs
humiliation, "lack of rights. Experienced the chains. slavery of wage labor and mechanization.
willmillions of slaves of capital. Together with the masses, with his class brothers, he
experienced how meagerly the crumbs of knowledge became the property of the proletarians, and
“as an age of capitalist profiteering and exploitation with merciless, calculating
vost. Stifled the slightest manifestation. thoughts, creativity, elementary
initiative of the working class. Slaves of the soulless machines were supposed to.
silently adapt their existence to production plans.
kings of capital. Millions of F. Kalinin's comrades in joyless and...
uncreative lot, accepted their existence as, unnaturally, “evil”,
The minority sought to actively resist breaking and destroying
H

||
e PROLETARIAN CULTURE. Xia

foundations of the bourgeois world, holding the proletarian_in the role of Banny Ya No.
only a few, and among them F. Izlinin, were able to grasp that. me
the class is already in the process of its creation, during the period. deadly difficult struggle
for its dominance, for the right to establish itself, carries within itself the beginnings of new
truths, new beginnings, both in the sphere of national economics and in the “area
science, philosophy, art, morality. ›

There are natures among the workers, especially in the modern period of combat,
when there is still a merciless breakdown, destruction, of the old world; diya whom
the most colorful moment of revolutions is its spirit of negation, the overthrow
marriage, its cleansing squall; These are the majority. The creative face of revolution
evolutionary struggle, what in the ‘preset state’ conceals an ascending
vlass, hidden and alien to them. .

} F. Kalinin was not like that. His intelligence wasn't so much. critically- `decay-
creative as well as collective and creative. With the healthy sense of the brightly gifted
F. Kalinin sensed early the properties of his class not only destructive,
zo and great creative: the power of the working class, that special one. creative
energy that lurks in the masses and. is screwed in. ‘features technically-’
social `labor,' `Already in the `planned ‚division of `workshop,
hundreds of hands performing one common creative work, already in the very
mode of factory, ‘labor, etc.even in general hours. rest hidden
the calling, the great ‘beginning of the collective spirit, this foundation of cultural creativity.
To open. way for this creativity} to free the will of the proletariat
& say to him, the class, to reveal himself “entirely”, Comrade Kalinin, fearlessly entered
for the field of revolutionary fighter. He was attracted by the ‘but close’ realities;
practical immediate results of the struggle, not improvement of material
what existence of their brothers, but the great, historical mission of the club, buying
paying at the cost of sacrifices, struggle and suffering the onset of a new stage of development
zity of humanity. Freedom from. puts and chains of capital are needed in order to
today's slave of a soulless machine 'could in the historical tomorrow © help
collective will. and collectively working thoughts to become the ruler over
spontaneous, indomitable forces of nature, to “overcome “matter”.

With what love `F. Kalinin noted and revealed the manifestation of his spirit
ego’ class, how attentively and sensitively he listened to still timid attempts
proletarian creativity in all areas! 'N6'he knew' and. nimal,. what. ‘sozi-°.
creative forces of the working class are still in the process of their “formation”
mation. They need to be lovingly and carefully identified, they need to. help to get stronger in
practice of life, and only then will it be possible to discern a new, unusual
the vile face of proletarian, communist culture. ^

And therefore, F. Kalinin’s gaze was turned to the distant future: His
minimized the long-range tasks of the working class. Fearless and selfless fighter for
communism, he did not like “politics”, which often clogs the soul with petty tasks
day. His sphere was ‘philosophical quest, thinking, If’ for Comrade Kalinin
had to live not in a period of brutal struggle and destruction, but in a moment of
the restoration of the old world and the application of all the forces of the proletariat to the construction
life, the generalizing, restlessly inquisitive ai of F. Kalinin could give
to the proletariat a scheme for a new communist philosophy, different but in method
and the spirit from the thinking shown by the bourgeoisie. capitalist system;

about F. Kalinin lived in the eramortal combat. two worlds of hostility
to the point of mutual bloody hatred. And at this hour one deep contemplation
desire would be a crime, especially for such a creatively effective
nature, what F. Kalinin was, who at the same time combined the strength of philosophy _
abstract thinking and healthy practical life of the proletarian.

In the name of the new spirit of collectivism, in the name of the culture of the ascendant
vlassa, - he took up a military, revolutionary post from a young age and did not leave it
even in the face of death.

\Everything petty, everyday, ‘everyday’ was alien to this proletarian
to a philosopher who knew how to note with a smile of soft, all-understanding sarcasm

32°

Fedor Ivanovich Kalinin.

Worker publicist and organizer of Proletkult
(born 1882, died 1920).

`

All-Russian Proletkult.

No. 18-4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. %

the “weaknesses” of their fellows! pr | [E 90U 9C handicap #nikrv in wrestling. "Postov" he
did not love and did not seek. What was important to him was the work he could invest in
pyecomytotosalae and earworms botaletvu zhavimo endowed him with nature. But not
was and 'unable to exist' 'taken 'mind |: ыы: thinking p 'self-
confidence No. petty narcissism. o‘ in

On the contrary, the higher and threefold were he? Ava in obdaea scientific-
philosophical. ‘search; ‘the less he was satisfied with this ‘his own
torture of permission. ‘urgent and pressing problems. Often a disadvantage! knowledge
- and preparation interfered with the ‘free’ ‘fearless flight of his’ thoughts. And 'potbmu's
Comrade gave such selfless spirit. Kalinin! ovoi ‘fork, nearby
< your beloved U and and, and another cause: ‘folk
‘enlightenment. e 29 E these

The soulless search for thought and the revival of proletarian culture
it is only possible ‘with a solid ‘support—a scientific ‘foundation;’ penetration into
the most: the depths of “knowledge, and for this the first, necessary RI
‘masks to science, to knowledge, to ‘mental work. 1 -

y If in the field of thinking Fi Kalinyan did not” ‘took About sleep OGmo on
Believing in the new healthy 'laboratory' of the proletarian! approach ‘to’ life and’ manifestation
the spirit of her 'transformed' in his own way 'thesegreat and positions) without recoil
from unexpected and new conclusions, then in the field of educating the masses. F. Ka-
Liny, with the same healthy instinct, condemned the proletarian’s “philosophies.” epetsia-
sheets on public education and about her Ket in NA who
creativity’ of the West on the’ soil of the labor republic. *

: “Knowledge is broad”—that was his count Ozia ini oe
in the People's Commissariat for Education, and he devoted himself selflessly to this task! ^

But there was a third task, close to F’s soul. Kalinina—upbringing ‘in
the very practice of life of the broad masses; for the implementation of the principles of communism.
For F. Kalinin it was obvious “that the way of the cross of the proletariat” was not “legal”
chen; ‘that’ ‘strengthening, tempering the will of’’’the recent slaves of capital is possible “only
one way: ‘the manifestation of broad’ ‘amateur activity’ of the masses. Only in’ <amo-
activity’ ‘and through it they can’ strengthen ‘and ‘creative’ forces come to light
‘the proletariat, only testing itself’ in the process of ‘creation, creation, war-
A new communist system is emerging. spirit of humanity. Let the proletariat
clumsy: ‘with his hand’ he builds his ‘life; ‘let him make mistakes, but let him create,
seeks and achieves himself. Only in the ‘process, overcoming’ and quests will one become stronger
opportunities hidden in the proletariat and a ‘new creative’ force will arise
proletarian culture. This is the line that was followed and followed throughout
with his life F. Kalinin. A tireless seeker, he appeared almost spontaneously
an exponent of the brave and creative. tasks of your class. E g
That’s why death hit her so painfully. Kalinin. Tattered
creative thought in a nutshell. The one who claimed “self-sufficiency” did not become
ness of thinking; the originality of the ‘feelings and perceptions of the rising’ class..."

5’ More ill, ‘loss’ of ‘beloved ‘comrade-comrade’ and ‘gemstone’
inner world, © crystal-clear soul, but’ ‘also: ‘more painful is the loss of `sa-
powerful ai, so’ But also bright. o yy ‘search for one’s own
same class.

The flourishing of ideas invested by Fedor Chalivin in) | dralz ulya“, si
manifestation of the “independent” creativity of the ‘proletariat’ in ‘all’areas
life and communication means of victory and ‘irrevocable victory of commu-
nizma, I th

to

In the near future, a collection will be published in memory of F.I.; Kalinina ‘iv
German readers will find a biography of the deceased. and ‘evaluation’ of it; ‘as a revolutionary,
figures of glues EREURY and the human hedgehog. ©I N

< - 9, ——_——ыь . { r ; . ch 1
6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 18 344

P.K. Bessalko.

In the mountains Kharkov. Worker-fiction writer Comrade Pavel died of typhus
Karpovich Bessalko. A writer of great talents; promised:: unfold-
to become a great artistic force. 4 state will be cool. n

Bessalko was born in the city of Ezhaterinolav in 1887. Upon completion
parish church, together with. My father worked as a ‘freight › driver.
At the age of sixteen, he entered. apprentice mechanic in! Ekalterinoslav iron-
‘knife workshops, and ‘vekore, in; 1908. todu, ‘took part in’ everything
general strike. In: a year has become. work in the Social Democratic Party,
nak. Mensheviyug zioltan and Zmotnintov I, modern va

In 1907 he was arrested twice; first time in February together .s‹ru-
the leading team of the organization, but due to the lack of ‘serious evidence’ he was
released - in October, him. will be arrested, again: Isna this: razooya sat out. Eka-
Terinoslavskaya. prison: about 2. years; ‘after his trial. exiled to the 'eternal ‹po-
settlement in the Yenisei province, c. Belskaya. parish, where from. in a year
and fled across the border. Lived for some ‘time’ in Vienna; in Florence, where work
tal at the stamp factory., V! 1911. moved to. Paris and: here, working! on.
airplane and orthopedic factories, lived until: our -February revolution-

Political. views. “I.-Beesalko” and his worldview: perfect
igili during this time was noticeable. evolution: ini o molo

Being skeptical. to. socialism. ‹Menshevik intelligentsia, ov
eagerly meets. "various currents of socialist thought as Russian-
Russian, and Western European: with syndicalism-manarchism and: Mahaev-
Noah. Study and: direct observation of Western Europeanwow worker
movements ©: his.life, often deeply “imbued with: petty-bourgeois” tevden-
tions, gave him the idea that the political and economic struggle
They don't carry the full one yet. liberation by the proletarians. ‘to the masses; the proletariat needs it.
create your own culture, your own science, your own art, your own morality, your own way of life,
united, one. socialist, the principle that kills those raids,
which capitalist culture inevitably brings into the working environment. And this one
task, proletariat. must fulfill) himself, telling and showing life: and
worker's ideals. class, its cultural and creative power and its sharply negative
tel. attitude towards the bourgeoisie and the decaying ‘intelligentsia: Worker

ero &

class itself. must. to be a ‘builder. new life wow
From now on, Bessalko becomes an ardent propagandist of the idea of the need
the possibility for the working class of an independent proletarian culture:

Bessalko began writing at the border. › Nudged. ‘his’‘on.it, ‘feeling.
cultural and ideological emptiness! in "Russian: post-revolutionary" artistic
noi ‘literature. 'A dead story about Siberian exile. was sent’ to the island
Capri. M. Gorky replied to the author “It’s a pity that you” didn’t “correct with. yours
task. This story, written by a worker, is very... it would be useful to read.
readers ‘intellectuals.. Write, study etc. etc. Bessalko ‘broke’ this
‘a story into several separate ones. stories, processed them. sent. c; For-
veta." Editor Mirolyubov liked the stories, but were not published
due to leaving, last: from. editors: won `In Goni:

Subsequently, the Siberian stories ‘were abandoned because... Bessalko
became interested in great literary work, which he was passionate about! before announcement:
nia of war. Bessalko moves from personal experiences in Siberian exile
to an artistic generalization of the sentiments that concern the entire proletariat. Ov
feels that the personal “I” is part of the large’ creatively ‘strong I We’,
which. shines with all its colors! separate. creative forces; ‘united in
class cocollective. . a`

In his new work, he wanted to paint the whole era of the revolutionary
tion struggle of the proletariat and show. the worker with his spiritual growth,
ups and downs. From the series of planned stories appeared in print—

|
All-Russian Proletkult.

Pavel Karpovich Bessalko.

Worker-fiction writer
(209. 1887 *. died. 1920%).
5. 13-514 PROPETAR CULTURE o
Childhood Kuzky $ eUnconscious way", "Catastrophe", in life". These
four things with; additional story, "Which: I must" was according to the 'zod'
beings to take a place between “Calaotropha”, and from ZNYu”, ya composition would be tu
her ‚0 which was so dreamed of varnish, a lot, thought the deceased `Vessally,’ s
Fsyakiy; Having read the works, without hesitation. SAY, ‘What is the author
possessed] a great lalant, but also “unfolded in faith 1 in all its might.”
“resnaya” plot; beautiful, simple. Russian language, without any frills’ ‘and
modernistekh. sophistication, truthfulness. and, sincerity, p and strength
spiritual indifference: and: at the same time amazing simplicity. the best thing
is, “In the unsophisticated way”; in it the author gives a picture of how a grown-up
‘Kuzka, who became ‘Darov,’ goes through his life’s path, first in 010-
painting workshop, then in Zubatov’s ‘movements’ and, finally, becoming
conscious ‘workers: “Catastrophe” depicts the time when, after, ‘then-
phenomena of the southern uprising, the Yekalerinoslav prison became famous for its
beating of political, - a beating that made ‘shudder’ in V66 Ekivoe
in society. The author unfolds the drama between workers and intellectuals,
You decided, saving your own skin, to ask for the highest pardon.

‚ hundred-separate. places. V. Bessalko's works are juicy and bright. For example, car-
987 ‘fire in Nortu; given. zinoRie- 'yarugie) remaining) Always / in (vala ac-
tatelya. TG) &1 MI

The war unsettled“ OUTSIDE OVO Sharply negative attitude
desire for war and powerlessness to do anything against the rampant natural shock
vanism, which embraced almost the entire old guard of international socialism,
forced. Bessalkodelve into the historical past, where he thought to find.
peace of mind. “The exotic, colorful east” amazes his imagination.
zhenie, ion; without changing his class point of view, writes R “Almazy Vos-
current", "Bessalko has never been" in the East; he does not provide documentary
paintings, before us are poetic dreams, and, symbols, in. which `are deployed
yubrazy of Greece, Ivdia, etc., V. of every thing. one can feel the proletarian spirit
structure, it gives the stories a unique flavor without spoiling them at all.
their artistic colorfulness.. This is an interesting contribution to the “proletarian white-
letristics. From the realistic-everyday paintings of V. Bessalko, he goes into the world of sim-
not of decadent bourgeois symbolism, but of healthy symbolism,
giving colorful pictures, legends, fairy tales, imbued with... proletarian
‘Attitude. He is the first. from prodetar writers ‚ expands the circle
their themes, without focusing on the revolution, the factory, the whistle, the “pipe, the machine”

noah, etc. |

from. During; revolution, Vessalko comes to Russia, E to his hometown
family Ekaterinoslav, and enters the railway there. workshop. . From couples
Tia Bolsheviks will soon go to Petrograd. to the All-Russian Railway
ny: Congress, Meeting. there. with the deceased, F. I.V. Valinin, with whom he was
still friendly: from Narizh, “ionashi.” joint conversations make the difference. his fate: Bess
sylko ‘remains. in Petrogradskoe. Proletkulte. and pran ‘may the most active
participation in the magazine “The Coming”.

In it, he places a number of valuable and lively ‘articles’ on proletarian issues.
skoy culture. And. proletarian literature. "He... cruelly... ridicules the ill-fated-
puff; poor in spirit: “but noisy.” futurists who

|

“The brain is emptying, ‘nay%brobka’ 60 siychki shos
K. at night in a “damaged tavern” 55
p (in ‘shirviivvich.)

n

they give it to the distributors. "peasant subdivision," and everything
C; Yusenin, who. together with the Marienhofs. and T.Pershenevichs” moos about
"the calving god* and N, Vlyuev, who came from early 'boryo. 6. sword-
that ‘about the White Skete’, and to many,others...), those
These articles are included. then in the book “Problems, prodbtareya and Zuzyurye,
which he released along with. deceased.F. I. Balavin. ,

\

} ov
_
o

10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 13-14

‚ Poelednov time' `Vassalko paid a lot of attention to the proletarian theater'
and wrote it myself. interesting dramatic sketch “Mason”, eo

M Rigo

it contains the creativity, impulse and courage of the proletariat.’ RE

In the early autumn of last year, when Denikin’s offensive ‘in’ the south
acquired “wide and threatening proportions”, Bessalko’s “party” mobility
Zapai goes to the southern front and works ‘there’ as an editor of the army
newspapers. With the liquidation of the southern counter-revolution, he moved to Kharkov; de
scourge of time; typhus, and snatches him ‘from our proletarian’ family o” |
“And, while bourgeois writers, guarding ‘their talents’ and ‘gifts’
Vanitsa, they only make claims against the Soviet government, workers,
deploying their ‘young forces, heroic “Arts in the fields: wok, (Va,
a new life, for a new culture -

And they will forever remain in the 'memory of the 'working' class, as they expressed it

suffering, re struggle 1 and fi o erryoy VYA

UGO in: + chriZoy

And about the aenavaoh ‘fighters: for. ‚span
Russian culture.

with ‘huge: bitterness I take into account; oponoria: suffered by the army
proletarian. culture in the person of Fyodor, who almost simultaneously passed away from “life”
Kalinin and Pavel. Besvalko I can’ understand” it better than the other; for
they both belonged. to Chisp my closest and dearest friends lived
and “developed in one of the most significant” eras for them rr “about mine, share
with, me, everything, ‘than. enriching them e into the world.” n. 85

} I met Kalanin ‘A long time ago; in the era of ‘creation! ri rejo
schools on the island of NayV). The main organizer" of it; "the war with Vi-
bosoms, having gone to invite the Uchenin “workers” to Russia, ri
there is the main assistant’ in the person of Kalinin.) x

“I am.” I remember the day when before ‘all of us; fenocinaltiizekya schools and
the already assembled half of the students; Kalinin made a reportd'evoy. work.
Sidle comrade is next to me. “A” Bogdanov, and I said/“to him” in a loud voice: ‘) Here you go
type of worker'organizer." Bogdanov answered me: ""Eeli" mouth like that, go" you can
rejoice for the Russian labor movement."

V. Kapriisky. period, like the subsequent Bologna; from comrade
Arkadai, as he was called, was no longer a student, but “only” an organizer, >--
he invariably stood out for the brilliance of his abilities, - there were the most brilliant ones - =
but thoughtfulness, seriousness, thoroughness. Already at that time: problems
were excited about proletarian culture in its ‘entire’ breadth! him, already noticeable at that time
was his ability to express his own: Yo’s thoughts were unusually clear,

‚ simple, transparent. forms. this.

Politics. Comrade Arkady. there are fewer inferential requirements, ©, n@ c. volume: thoughts,
so that something is inherent in him at least in the slightest degree. different breeds for the fight:
He was a revolutionary from head to toe, but he really didn’t read himself as a creator,
ry among the foreign Bolsheviks captivated him rather because they were alone,
Vperyodists developed the idea of proletarian culture, and he gave a second
We give a sedate significance to purely political disputes.

o‚ Despite this, he was always a major employee of the “Forward” group
Iv. politically, firstly, as always calm, balanced
and smart. husband. ‚advice, ‚secondly, as a practitioner, to whom “again and again”
they stopped, ‘when’ from the roches” and articles it was necessary “to get down to business.” G ;

In Paris before the war, when Adeksineky narrowly began to disintegrate the group with his
degenerative ambition” and “no-stopping” poisonous manner
nothing to do with personal struggle, this’ fruit! began to pursue Arkady,

yt

No. 18—14 ITROLETARIAN CULTURE. oh,

. insisting that he leave immediately) c. Russia, and accusing him of” not ‘accurately
-nom political zeal. I supported” Arkady in every possible way, because “how did
this. time, and, mind you, earning money through physical labor! ‘daily bread’
he did a tremendous amount of work on himself: he read voraciously, wrote a lot, and
came almost every day:with new thoughts. formulas. Na' moykhtla-
zakh v. Marije Arkady grew up as a great proletarian theorist. crops:

During the course of the war, I. admired him: Not ‘only/ because, ‘unlike
so many, he immediately identified! your position, ' how! ‘revolutionary’ inter-
nationalistic, but also: because;: that; being’mobilized’and’fallen, with very
with a meager knowledge of the language, among the French ‘working landmen, he’ managed
amazing. move ahead: them. The Russian carpenter invented a whole range of iri-
abilities that were.not widely! working hours! according to ukreile-
Nieuw de Paris, Av. too: time steadily conducted ‘his’ ‘propaganda, and, arriving
for leave. she said with a kind smile: “The French are crazy about nothing.”
want. think, they live iso. day to day; work; ‘as they will order; ‘only
bad. But they really are interested in: show me No. A or tell me.
How. you know how - he: satisfied, he will liven up a little" to Pop that and motnomodeny m

“Here you go: “barbarian” among the cultured: Europeans. 4889

Until October; coup "Arkady: in Netherburg workers in lnrofv-
national unions, continuing! steadily. creative ‘work on’ issues
proletarian culture. After the coup, “of course” I invited
strength him in. the board entrusted to me. People's Commissariat of Education and 'gave him ideological ideas' 'and,
practical guidance on the matter of helping people on their own O E V
ig organizations, primarily proletkults. about:

. (Of course, this was not an overestimation: his ‘strength,’ I’m far from underestimating
Neil Only in the last months before his death of the Moscow period; we, ›
the leaders of Narkompros realized what an incomparable organizer we are
“We have in his face, little by little in his ‘hands’ the ‘entire ‘organization’ was concentrated
tion work, ion” bogatyreki ‘i. burning' 'from''passion and thirst for work
began to rationalize the structure. and functions’ of the People’s Commissariat of Education TR

I claim that this passion is huge 'and 'exciting'
work, this exorbitant readiness to do everything; everywhere. keep up, was’one of
reasons for tacosth terrifying” ‘early death’ of the ‘young’ ‘fighter’ who grew up in.
huge. size; 'V. and 6red for Sovotek! and about
and.organizing force.

`And if everyone respected his mind, will; - performance} that `vee feverish
his dear. soul, him; simple kindness, his. quiet O for your attentiveness -
no. affectionateness to everyone.) th BN

“I am looking for these youths, and once again the ‘serlie’ is painfully compressed.. `Puotea ‹otalyuo.
in the world for those; who knew this wonderful man.

I don’t remember who passed it on. Bbebaivko’s first rieskazy for me: that’s not
long essays from the life of Siberian exiles. Not all of them were equal in
interesting plot and execution, but! many!’of them. ‘customs are written’. tazh
It’s fresh that I immediately told the mediator to ‘bring this
working writer.

Bessalko, shy and gloomy, came to me, Nyvoshchen he stayed
dissatisfied; like `my insufficient. delight before the first attempts at writing
him, and the fact that I was powerless to help him print it
things.

At that time, Bessalko was still alive; ®howl | ‘a period of intense hatred
to the party intelligentsia. He belonged to the Menshevik and A.A.
but according to in spirit he was most likely an anarcho-syndicaliot. '

Soon, one day, a relationship! between’ him, ‘and on the other there’s a car
became a wife” so’ friendly; ‘that: Vessalko ‘all’ ‘still’ and”
gloomy, graciously declared ‘I’ one hundred’ singles me out ‘from the intelligentsia’:
12. PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ` No. 48-94

A big “work of that time” was Vessalno’s novel “Catastrophe”:
Her novel, or rather a series of scenes from prison life) on the one hand 0b``
explains Paul’s hostility towards the intelligentsia, on the other side with all its ‘resiliency’
expresses it; Bessalko. I can’t help but turn pale: there is indignation, ‘remember how
behaved unworthily. themselves party intellectuals 'in':906' 'in. Yekater foreigner-
skaya prison, ‘when all prisoners faced the death penalty. And this is a nightmare -
he managed to tell a new story in places. in ria t ut orelit on
pages of its: gloomy: and bilious epic. "and oh

But they were. last clouds" scatteredoh 'brown And,

Before my eyes, Baosvalko was changing. More and more" was "in: aa `Bla-
important, more and more often on his lips, a smile appears. He AE V: yy tapant, he ‚t
breathed. in Paris; he found t: and! friendship and love." to G. IiNE: “

sal: he.at that time mastered: memories, \ eporebbublishing! in and
a number of separate ones. chapters big-biography of Kuzka:—your Mavla, ‘of course: "

Here. there were colors. already significantly lighter. But ‘izeta ‘byia’ doe’ ro-
shlomu. Not at all: that was swarming in the head of the young Southern worker, e°bolv-
great temperament and a passionate thirst for a cheerful, brilliant, brilliant life.

Somehow he suddenly allowed himself to fast. deliberately ‘reanied’ and typed
to your palette of the brightest and most varied colors. And ‘togha suddenly
“completely new” songs were given: Judas’ Gavlonit,. “gouged out” his “eye” in
rocky. surroundings, Jerusalem; ‘all according to the promise’ and that’s why I’m drowning’
Jeanne in semi-biblical tones; DIAMONDS of the “East”; ‘where nearby’ o’ wonderful
legends written in 'patterned' enamel words, deny' such
Homeric thing, ‘ka Vulcan; stories; ‘overhanging’ e / lightness’
the best works of Maupassant from the life of a Parisian woman
the range is fantastic, unfolded in. soul Vessalko.“® t
sy lat © by theft. watched ‘the widening of the riverbed’ via BdaioVaii Igo
love. to bright, colors, exceptional: ‘experiences, to’heroic)’ ‘to
a fairy tale, a myth, could not have better confirmed my “everyday idea” about
that the passing ‘artists will have access to’ the past ‘and will be’
stuff; nature. and the human soul in all its immensity will become their: “object”,
but what. they will illuminate all this) with their flying lights and lights in the “Flow-

o Fak" ‘it, ‘was. 'With; Bessalko: “He doesn’t have one work that
picky critic! n6' called. would be tenentious. All these rainbow golds
the arrows, fluttering, show the same field: her idea
to those labor, freedom and human harmony. }

“In Roesiya I tried to immediately attract Vessatko’s workthose. I am he. replaced Fe-
r Kalinin in Petrograd, as the head of the Assistance Department’ and independent
BIM. Propetersky cultural: organizations for Kalinin’s departure to Moscow.

After my departure from “Metrogradal” I observed less “Mavla: But I know
that ‘friendship with hell and closeness to the heroic theater was new:
streak in his life. Having become passionately interested in the theater, he dreamed of a whole series of
play: About this dream, we “together” told stories to each other
dramas we have conceived! our last date: ‘like never before’ I felt
Valimyg both ‘and’ said! this is to another friend; how close and’ like tiva
Our “work” is in the field of art. s oivno

He drove calmly and confidently. And here's the unthoughtful GIF of Ekobil? ‘this
most pro roles, doki vi links

#*

o ar |. RHEA

74. "Vee flies"

uN

m

Civil bi V ‚Wallpaper sd can be (considered to
Bourgeois counter-revolution, led by Volchak; "Yudenich; . Denikin
and by others it was completely broken, ae’pathetic: its›remains, cowardly. fussing in front of
The advice of the ‘authority’, which has covered the white skin through the ‘Anrlian lawyers’ in the ‘family’
No.\184=14. PROLETARIAN CULTURE \ 18

Curzon. The international position is being strengthened. imoriasilyatye ‘total *з6м-^
no ball. with development. international. proletarian: revolution ‘more ‘more’ and.
more; forced to give up their aggressive ones! intentions! ‘relatively-’
nu. to. Russia: tap her; althoughi with: at dentalmug in: mch
nal, economic: relations. 51 ROTOY B
“And at this moment, cooperate with the feo of strengthening the exchange of renunciations about
PA wound background naturally; ‘moves to: economic struggle =
the devastation inherited by us from the imperialist war and some
the new counter-revolution” passes to the peaceful one; organic construction.
For these purposes, to the extent possible and necessary, the “Zhrasnaya Dealeti” will be translated
on the position of Labor. army. UTzaShchin YOU 59
d'Shroproduced. social: the experience of someone’s history, which “is not yet known to us”
B, take it to him: suna with the highest attention ‘kan’ from the point of view of the theoretical
tichesky sotochki ozreof immediate results, ‘despite’
Zoorromadi, LLC en rye loan fe 9 experienceart about me

okos fired OST aya ›, UVE LLC

UZ:

The capitalist economy is characterized by individualism: prb-
plagued by its anarchy; regulated by the obscure? to the manufacturer! ‘laws
market and competition. Communist ‘economy’ is the opposite; should d
set strict. system regulating ‘economic life’ with ‘cost-
rons directly: production; and from the ‘side they read: disintegration

‚ labor force. If in a bourgeois society. ‘proletarian `` tsevomoaavisia v.
of your life. from the blind forces of competition! and> their combinations were forced
in the struggle, for, existence: rushing ›from’ one master to’ another, comrade com-”
In a Munist society, the movement of factory workers will be conditional on it!
not the pursuit of a “hungry person for a piece” of bread; “a strictly accounted economic”
necessity: ‘society, ‘to concentrate a certain’ amount * ‘definition’ p
labor force in the toyili‘inoynoy area of production: onozsnoraeevye oChomooi

Creation of the Labor Army: and this is the first step towards the future regular: *
and precise distribution of ‘labor’ in the interests of the AI craft
nism, ‘at non-separate ‘pre-employers-exploiters? Nervous beginnings:
will; ‹ undoubtedly; timid and hesitant; But; ‘despite it} we
due (persistently. ‘Continue tg nai ‘tyggu which’ is dictated by ‘modern: ho-`
economic: by positioning our eyes to the setting of ‘really I’m
munistic "economy bosom. IT" 5 OE I and ONYH y

You often hear: enmity; that communism continues,
free” labor, alneomilitarized and “military”, “judgmental. "Gut
lies; whole; a number of misunderstandings. During the period of the dictatorship of the proletariat, in: pe-“
withdrawal period | old “public” relations; at a transitional moment” from ‘one’
culture: to another it is absolutely impossible to calculate ‘what’ all members are! ‹
capable of intimidating: the individualistic chains of ‘bourgeois’ culture)”

and that they are in theirm revolutionary impulse" 'without: any 'social-compulsory- <
telny organization ‘will carry out an economic task. This is where we’re heading®
in the future maybe through. tens: years; and public economy! requires
“its” “organization “now, and we all have to with historical inevitability”
go, 'through the public'
we want: to lose: the gains of the October Revolution and otoooem about the revolution

Samasho: form of 'tri-compulsion = po'. being “one’s own” is far from ‘the’ pelvis
bourgeois society" to us; your food ‘in’ bourgeois’ society, ‘it seems
strange and incomprehensible; how. this’ the state power can. force
me: to work) tov of one trol, tov of another, th: in one: meteugto “lv” other
gomu Vutkanitalistichesky world like these’ worldsYaisvili okan-togsy: zaya
dreams of this! coercion, considering ero®‘naturally inescapable zogeperz g.
same; Corda this is the process of “going” to the fate of society. team; equals
rightful: ‘of which every citizen is a member: many. govo-:!
ryatio of some kind of compulsory means to remember! about their ‘obligated

14 PROLETARIAN “CULTURE\\ No. 13-14”.

ties in relation. to.new society’ and ‘implement’ them. Yes' and' this. new’.

socially inevitable, coercion: will, become softer, everything will be:
more pleasant, everything is more acceptable; as ‘people; broken'' according to their 'family'

and professional occupants" in bourgeois society, recognize themselves as active

new members of a new big family—society! and, 'naturally, 'getting tanned'

desire: to establish: in this society a regulated, joyful ‘for

everyone's life. The new polytechnic ‘education’ will give them the opportunity to orientate
work in many types of labor, and in the ‘lack of con-

there is no need to look for a piece of bread ‘for yourself and your family’ ‘change of residence’
only. will not" frighten; but will bring into life and those nights,
expanding the human experience. a

And; as if some people tried: what a waste of money is the militarization of “labor”
yavlappears to be incompatible with communism, we resolutely! ‘we affirm that’ no
militarization of labor is the first stage in the organization of socialized labor and

We are inclined to call this militarized labor not only irrefutable, but generally |

naturally free, no matter how paradoxical this may seem to some.
The labor army is of great interest to the Don. ‘from the point of view

emerging proletarian culture. 111: ;
‚ The current moment from the point of view of the political market

political. a bloc of the proletariat and the peasantry, otherwise: it could not have happened’.

in our peasant “country, in! capitalist terms” underdeveloped
and otetala.. But; strengthening: political: bloc, ‘propetariat! does not refuse’ and

no. Maybe. refuse. its complete hegemony in the field of: culture; in the area }

ideology and other areas of spiritual culture. He strives’ fine-drilled
zhuaz. ideology etc. psyche ` intermediate 'social ' groups ' and! in
first of all ‹ ‘peasantry; as an element of labor; ‘bring closer to oneself) and

as the new social economy develops, dissolve in itself. Ponds

Your army is precisely the first experience in this regard!

Consisting mainly of peasants, but led by the proletariat and “

in some cases by the communists, Trudovaya. the army aligns ideology and psyche.

its members along the line of the industrial proletariat. Snatching out the petty bourgeoisie:

new; individualistic, views of the ‘private. small-scale farming, Trudovaya

there will inevitably be an army. vaccinate. point of view of social economy” and

collective work, and this in turn will lead. to you own.”

nic instincts and individualistic sentiments. \
If in a capitalist society the development of technology and equipment

people from villages ‘around the ‘factory machine’ ‘processed’ consciousness!

mass; giving: to them the class “proletarian” direction—now; in Trudovaya:

army organized on principles" excluding capitalist principles
principles, - operation; ‚and purely,‘ performing work, - a. talkzke consciousness
public! necessity and. usefulness of this HP About the number and for
himself a member of the Labor Army, collective work and collective
new life will inevitably lead to the creation of new ones. human relations;
unknown to capitalist society; will lead: to the creation of a new ‘life

based on communist ‘preconditions’, more; will lead to the creation of something new.

a man tearing and stripping off his spiritual ‘robes of the bourgeoisie’
culture of a communist man not only: in: politics, but ›in all life,
a communist not only in mind, but ‘deeply’ and in feeling:

Overcome petty-bourgeois individualistic habits of various.
social groups exclusively through ‘campaigning’; at least strengthened"
noah, naive dream. We can overcome the petty bourgeois element
fly mainly by involving it in the socialized: productive,
where, in the words of K. Marx, . being itself would determine and process
their consciousness would be spoiled - and propaganda would only polish what is being created
attitude. The labor army is the first. ‘a link in a new chain
th

No. 1 m PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 15

‘being; through it life itself will carry its new principles throughout the cities and
‘to all ends infinite. country with its seedy districts, bearish corners
Kreetyansky irobtranovve ^* 8“ Mono som shchko I Good Go y
Warning voices that the proletariat may dissolve in this
the peasant mass of labor armies ‘and lose their’communist consciousness,
tion, they say rather ‚01 lack of faith. by virtue of the proletariat, as a creative-revolutionary
ational energy created by history, and the triumph of which is also ‘inevitable,
how the sunlight triumphs over the pale glow of the moon. , New: Genesis
leads the proletariat to a higher ‘consciousness’ than the ‘class’ one;—to -communist-
‚sky, ignorant of ‘Classes’; and at the moment the new existence will make about the prole-)
tariat as a conductor of its ideology; to ‘unite’ all of humanity
society, creating from it a worldwide brotherly Labor Army: o: {

Oh um

And this Trudeauyour “army” will fight the “not” hated by the public
relations that bring domination to one and slavery to the other, and
'home, with the outside world. In his ‘heroic struggle: against’ devastation and ‘in’ the organ-
‘lowering’ the ‘new economy, the Labor Army will be less ‘earned’
‘payment, not for self-destruction’ ‘a cup of bread’ for a ‘rainy day, about this
The workers' and peasants' government will take care of overcoming. accepted-
"Yours who stand in the way of the implementation of a 'communist' economy; I.
under these conditions, fear that the proletariat will dissolve in the peasantry
‘mass, not. will carry her along with him, which means not understanding the unfolding
historical process. ^^ VN 917O Kia Navajo
As a major economic force, the Labor Army will inevitably .bu-

children and a major cultural force. “And the responsibility of ‘every communist’ is to bear”:
in its ranks 6v06e internal content. ^°. zarodetkitse RUO mo yvenya
And the 3rd Congress of the All-Russian Council of `Nroletkult' was profound. rights and
This is consistent when in the resolution ‘about’ the operative’Grudova: ‘the army ‹ said
“The labor army, fulfilling” collectively organized, “socially-owned”
a lot of work, ‘vet’ first’ tag. to the communist organization of labor:
everyday life, processing the psychology and ideology of its own. members of the "proletarian"
sk direction." And ‘if so, then’ it’s quite natural that ‘b’ezd calls the organ-,
to take an active part in the development of Proletkult: c. cultural and creative.
work of the Labor Army. go oUYO n etwatemaiachiya gi

Until now, due to ‘historical conditions and inevitable ‘conditions -mo-
ment, in the work of Nroletkult there was a lack of observation, study
reading ‘and collecting’ everyday elements of a ‘new life’ that are best
could determine the direction of work in the field of literature from the field of
Tbatra region, as well as in other ‘regions. And now this disadvantage is in
to a certain extent we can make up for it with our work. in 'Prudarmy. (p sy

We must firmly remember that at this time; ‘like the Red Army strengthened
conquests of the revolution, bwas an army of › destruction‹destroying. Although. would
vontr-revolution, was’ a collective: a welded field: struggle and struggle: exclusive
Although strictly military, the Labor ‘army’ is an ‘army’. creative, creative,
m all members are united by the idea: the collective productivity of labor, which
which lies at the basis of proletarian culture, on which everything was built,
the Munist ``society,''z®' which 'our' comrades 'fought heroically. and
died theorically. “! the basics

The labor army, as it develops, will become larger and larger
basis for the work of Proletkult, and ‘we’ must ‘give’ a part to it. their strength^

Valeryan Polyansny.

$

C%
`

16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE No. 1314
and NU ZM UN NIIAO

“essays on organizational science. |
b “Sustainability” of organizational forms). "t in

fr Quantitative n. yuz ‚vtruvturnaya! mouth # ‚oyamiivevet

on supersaturated water, or. in unsaturated. water steam. tmo-
sphere served for) nae. an example of the positive. and, “negative, under.
bora’ It’s ‘possible to take’ or yustrazhiu. two. Regarding the basics of the CHORUS.
those related to the organizational stability form Jonah mole

If the air is not saturated! steam, drop, subjected to ‘sparkling’. leryavt.
elements into the environment.. Over a certain period of time, she,
at! these. ‘conditions, should, absolutely, feel: “crisis..destruction of this
complex: Assuming that the wall. atmospheric humidity and its temperature Hurray.

do not change, the duration of the drop’s existence is from,, its

big” calla, will last: longer than, small... complex, “Ze
a larger amount; elements, themes. most, ‚characterized as ak. GB
stable about: attitude, towards: herede, but, obviously, only. in, direct, quantitative
nomeemyelet-t:+e.zk> oe bonzhiai imyry of oroivleniya activities
opposing. this environment: ‹; en Tarani and VoVo-a V
Positive selection obviously leads. to increase. This one. to about
natural: sustainability! “negative -something, decrease, or even AA
positive. ‹selection: identical. s. ‚ee, magnification, negative: -C.
decreasing, because the first one is determined. like, overweight. abbimilation. n
disassimilation, i.e., as an increase in the Mind elements of the complex, the second -

don't mess with this
INo’ venschitnii Tue; = oenim al urlodanovony ‘complex zavispt, “not at all”

not just the quantity
tion,’ also’ from the way they are combined, from the nature of their organizational connection;

We’ know that ‘with’ a positive selection, ‘near ..with the value, drops, . cart

the heterogeneity of its structure will melt, and, for example. mechanical. drop break, }

can reach a comparative level: and. Ilevche; and on. known limit 'for.

it turns out that the gravity itself is enough. drops, so that they disintegrate.

by two. This is a decrease in the “structural stability” of the complex. On the contrary,

negative lodbor; 'nearby toothing, 'size, 'drops, determines.
increasing homogeneity of its production;›and’ since it is a varnish, the same, for example...
rupture of a drop requires the application of relatively: greater force; "structural..
sustainability" increases. “Of course, and this is only within the limits, for now..

basic structure of a drop. ‘oetaeteya. the same, that is, before the crisis, to which, not:

inevitably leads to a negative selection if. I, continues... further and,

further, -= in this case until the crisis of “disappearance” of Kali as a liquid body.
Structural ‘sustainability’ itself. represents. size, and always maybe
be expressed quantitatively: Tazh, and mechanics. all kinds of coefficients

resistance to bending, rupture, torsion, etc. are precisely. numerical,

expression, structural stability, of different bodies according to, yutnosnayu, to.definition-,

lenient “external” influences. What’-une, says ofi VE

“energy; then they’ characterize” quantitative stability... on

Two complexes of the same type, composed of homogeneous ones. 95“, 1

mental activities can be directly compared by their quantitative stability
news, ‘not counting specific influences. environment; If. Who cares, I'm all right
the sum of the elements is greater thanm v.B, then this is its stability in any case
correspondingly more under the same influences, whatever they may be
were. For example, as the body grows, its resistance reflects
the influence of poisons in any case increases; - no matter what poison

1) This is the fourth in a series of “Essays”.

activities-resistance concentrated in it, .^
7)
:

N
and

A 13-14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 17

was used to disorganize the larger. number of tissues 'his' will be required
more, on the contrary; .0)structural: stability"one can say! always only
in relation to: to or other influences) and not in relation to any in general:
The body shows more significant resistance to one poison than to another
weaker t.:p.; for each destructive influence there is a special coefficient:

However; often: the concept of structural ‘sustainability’ should! approx.
to be in such a definite form. .Eelikomilens A ‘is in more or
less. permanent environment; ‘under some: set’ of influences, changing
existing only’ in. famous rooks; - = man in the social environment, animal -
new ‘or ‘plant. in a ‘6vgo’ ‘usual spontaneous ‘situation; it.) p.u-—to. you can
form a summary idea of ‘sustainability’ in relation to’ the whole
this system of conditions! (So, comparing “two” different political or cultural
new organizations living within the framework of ‘one! total! same: society; can be found
that ‘one of them according to its structure’ appears! more' lyrisnovoeya; ‘than

different, i.e. structurally! ‘more stable’ But’ if’ social” ‘conditions:

will experience an unusual change, like a revolution; economic wars:
zisa;, then the relationship: turns out to be: in general, sometimes directly ‘opposite’:
‚Current ones. theories of the structure of matter: pre-polyalot, and even atoms in general
are gradually being destroyed’ in the world’s environment, although there is apparent “ionization” 65a
the nature of destructive influences yet? no. But we know; what for’radium er-
The lifespan of atoms is 'about' '2500 years, for thorium - about 40
billions of years, dlI am mesothoric—about 8 years old, & for some “emanations—“
minutes; seconds, small; fractions of a second. These ''figures'' and 'represent the book-
ny coefficients. structural: stability of these forms of matter in its
ordinary observations, “which we” “have to” “observe, and” from the French
which. ‘experiments still haven’t happened yet! could come out when you are horrified
to name those: impacts; on which the destruction of atoms depends) and’pleanomerically
change. him. speed. for various bodies; then ‘not only:’will be resolved’ ‘#61
theoretical question about the conditions of their structural” ‘stability,’ ‘notypractic
humankind will have the opportunity to dispose... gigantic quantities
activities of “intraatomic” energy®. * =
The concept of structural stability within the limits of limited variability
howl of the environment has enormous significance for tectological practice: Veya's environment
life on earth, the whole environment; in which humanity operates and develops, ‘5`e6
the usual amplitude of oscillations of its various conditions in aeronomic, atmo=
spherical: and! other, cycles, can: be considered, ‘as limited-change+
chilling; and this means precisely: such; ‘changes of which ‘in advance: teach scientifically
are teasing; or in yours. aggregates, or in broad 'total' combinations:
In particular, very important: provisions on. on how to build a structural foundation:
agility influences. progressive' selection, positive. and'negative. Meh
saw on. example. drops: dew; what'iri positive selection, ‘in parallel
with increasing heterogeneity of the internal connections of the complex, there is a decrease in
tion of Hoy stability; o& when’ negative, “with increasing ‘their ‘uniformity’
sti, its increase. „The same thing: true in relation to the code \comipex
in the environment with indefinitely variable and varied influences: in the translation
In this case, the existing structural contradictions remain;
connect, :с0; introduction. new ‘elements, more! new; in the second case
going. destruction tears away from the complex, first and foremost, firmly
related, © him eelements that break the most contradictory ties’ most =
more mixed, with, partial. disingressions: For example; growth of living “kyatki”, “oz
like ‘growth. drops of cables TV: in a supersaturated atmosphere, leads 'to' the end
internal disintegration, which is expressed here; finally in the fall
cells into two; in biological development this decay is used as
"reproduction"; “but> after all” “and” the drop; moving in the “supersaturated” “atmosphere,
is‘ “multiplied”; Gotom’ that ‘66 Parts, “Kanli-daughters”, continued
under the same conditions ‘grow, like’ her, ‘to a new one. disintegrations; So. burning his service
teas of “reproduction” of liquid crystals, etc.

Proletarian culture. No. 131. 2
18 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. at 1

\ This pattern is especially clear. in the life of the organism and

society. When, for example, a person has been in a particularly favorable state for a long time

environment; then, despite the quantitative accumulation of energy, the overall strength.

his resistance to the environment begins to decrease, he, as they say, “pamper-
“is changing”, “and this means a reduction. structural stability against attack
favorable influences, On the contrary, in many cases we are led by moderate
fasting, and excessive blood loss, also following acute fevers
With certain diseases, there is an improvement in health that goes higher. that’ health,
which existed before the period of negative selection; and “health” is a designation
the same structural stability of the organism 1). Lots of examples. that
how hidden contradictions accumulate during “prosperity”, i.e. under’ put-
careful selection, capitalism gives, with it. crises. When ‘especially long-
In the midst of prosperity, contradictions begin to become apparent. Yes, England
during the era of his domination. world market, after centuries of prosperity
Tania was also distinguished by its economic development. extremes—near ‘giant’
wealth and deepest poverty, and the preservation of backward ideologies, one thing:
temporarily. with the progressive, as the country of the greatest religiosity, outdated:
modern political traditions, etc.; Aif you specifically take classes, living
existing in an exceptionally favorable environment, i.e. dominant,
exploiting classes of different eras of history, then they usually con:
began to degenerate. On the contrary, a harsh environment often led to recovery
life of peoples; from difficult wars, after a great waste of strength, they emerged
how. renewed, more united internally and more active
in labor, quickly. restored what was wasted and rose above the previous level):

The total stability of the complex in relation to its given environment
there is obviously a complex result of partial stability of different parts
of this complex in relation to the directed ones. influences on them. It is necessary
therefore, to explore what exactly is the ‘relationship between the stability of individual
parts and the whole that is formed from them. WON >

software.” Law of the smallest.
Let there be a chain consisting of. from’ links of equal strength, On

The weights are suspended from this chain. Most links are capable of breaking it

while swaying, withstand the weight. up to 1000 kilograms, some up to 1500, & one link—

only ‘up to 500 kg. The question is, what is the greatest weight it can bear?

chain as a whole? Obviously, only ‘500 kilograms; with greater severity it
will break at the weakest link. The structural stability of the whole is determined
is shared by our lesser partial ‘stability’. This diagram does not apply
only to mechanical systems, but ‘decidedly to’ all kinds: physical, psi:
chemical, social. If an organization of people, for example an army, has to
overcome destructive influences, then its ‘sustainability’ depends on
the smallest of the partials; and in the same way the logical chain of evidence
pgs if one of its links does not withstand the blows of criticism:

But... in practice, the system is usually subject to ‘not’ equal and. not
uniform influences in its different parts. Even’ in our example
with chain; its upper links must withstand, in addition to suspended weight,
Also, the weight of all the lower links, which can sometimes be decisive. times-
prostrate; front army is subjected to blows of unequal force at different points

and at different times, etc. Therefore, we have to introduce the concept of relation.

body resistance. V.mechanism; called a complex block, when sub-
For any number of weights, one rope must withstand, for example, a thousand kilograms,

while the other one is 500, the third is 250; fourth 195, etc. If.

1) Of course, such a greeting! It happens. far: not’ always: negative selection
is still associated with gradual destruction, the quantitative stability with it decreases
varies; the question is how far the destructive process will go; and sufficient time
development generally leads to disorganization. b:

2) Here, too, the previous disclaimer is implied. to

———=—
No. 13 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 19

the first of the atstosobna, zerotinootoyya tension in “1500 kler., then - its relative-

<

1500 its
body resistance will be 1000' t. le. in 5 if for the second, the maximum tension

is 90, then its relative resistance is c if. for the third it is. total

250, then the relative resistance is 1; will happen, complete disingression
this between the cohesion of its particles. and the action of gravity, and, as we know,
the rope will break. Tem. more. it would burst if... somewhere
parts, the relative resistance turned out to be less than unity.

` If the magnitude of external influences changes, or structural restoration
knowledge of the system itself, then it is enough to. in any part of it
on whatever. neither was short. the period of time was established relative
body resistance is below unity, and a destructive process will occur - $
how significant and deep it is, of course, depends on the total amount
organizational conditions, Falling asleep. for a minute the hero can be killed
an insignificant dwarf. It is enough that on the surface of a person’s body Ai

=.
deriya was damaged by a wound in the mouth of the same length and composition

less than a hundred-millionth part is angry. its surface - and so that pathogenic
microbes everything. one second. actually hadth access to this wound, - and organ-
vism is infected, perhaps fatally,

Sustainability is intact. “depends” on the smallest relative resistances
all its parts. at “every moment,” the pattern of developments in life and
scientific significance. :

Between. by the way, exactly on. it in organizational practice - technical,
political and any other - the formidable moment of “responsibility” is based.
Supervisor. could. whole. years. conduct business correctly and expediently throughout
maintaining the line, timely, skillful. intervention "sufficient
organizational sustainability; new I cheated on him on one issue. his intellectual
naya energy, or just on. attention weakened for a minute, and it often happens
irreparable damage, sometimes, as in a combat situation, complete “fleece”

We must remember that the concepts of “activities” or “impacts”, and “resistance”
phenomena" for tectology, are entirely correlative, and mutually change methyl-
<those, when, point of view; starting point of analysis, transferred: homilok
on his Wednesday. That's why. circuit of “least relative resistance”
completely different parts of the complex. is equivalent. scheme. „the smallest relative
relative activities" of the same parts, or "the greatest relative potencies
actions” of the environment, or its greatest relative resistances; and under
Many people use the same formula. cases that do not Anait external
way, in, first. the expression we have given.

So, let there be a squadron consisting of ships of different speeds, different
different entry draft and different capacities of coal holds. *Shortness of lines -
battleships, say, 30 kilometers per hour, cruisers 40 km., counter-
destroyers 50 klm, What will be the total speed of the squadron in the long-range
Vanya? The speed of the ship is... measure we overcome >‘ resistance. its’ water
environment, or a measure of the 'comilex's own' activities; smallest” relative
the greatest value of these activities is the same as the greatest relative
physical value of the resistances opposing them, and, obviously, is expressed
the smallest skin—30km, it's absolutely necessary that it should

1) Moving even further to the primacy, this will determine the inevitable historical
The limitations of the “authoritarian” type of organization in Osh are characterized by the fact that
The “organizational function”, that is, the structural adaptation of the entire system, depends. everything-
entirely from the individual brain of “authority” or. ruler, while the scale of the organization
tional life, of course, is collective. Therefore, partial and at least. short-term

permanent individual deficiency is reflected, sometimes irreparably or hy-
white, on the whole team,

o*
20 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. L№ 13-14

be the overall ‘speed of the squadron, greatest at. what it is, it can still be preserved:
realize your connection and unity of action; those ships; which for a sufficient period of time
for a long time 'will develop a more significant speed, 'breaking away from
battleships, and the squadron will disintegrate.

Next, let the underwater part of the 'battleships' go deeper by 10 meters,
for cruisers - 8, for counter-destroyers - 5. The squadron will have to pass through
relatively shallow waters of some straits. What will be the most
shallow accessible ‘fairway for her? Here it is most convenient to talk about
high relative resistances of the environment; it is clear that they correspond
maximum draft—10 meters; where the armadillos will pass, ‘others will also pass there’
other ships, but not back 1). :

Similarly, if some ships have reserves in coal pits
for 10 ‘days of travel, others for 15, others for 20, then the greatest distance is,
their path from one coal station to another should not exceed 10-
daytime, etc. ze En

It must be borne in mind that the tectological concept of “part” is much broader,
than the usual meaning of this word, Let, for example, through some hole,
resistance. walls ‚which, irresistibly: for, existing activities,
you have to drag a body of a certain shape: furniture is brought in through
door, or a prisoner crawls through a sawed-off grate, ‘etc.: We have to
take the “greatest ‘relative’ resistance of the ‘medium’; and they’all “know-
more accurate for the largest transverse dimensions of the body,’ and ‘even more accurate for

the largest 'dimensions' of each 'cross section. Therefore the body’

write in that case it will pass, “if in no dimension” transverse to it
sections it will not exceed the corresponding dimension of the hole, otherwise
in this dimension the relative ‘resistance of the medium’ is greater than’ unity, or
surmountable: 'Transverse' sections, v.-6. “areas”, and even their dimensions,
1.16. ’“lines” are tectologically parts of the complex-body?) 90:

“Often the relative ‘activity-resistance’ of a complex, ‘and its environment
we have to ‘consider how they change over time, ‘investigate the
ilex-—^process. Then the moments of this process appear in the form of links
one chain, temporary, and to these links, as parts of a whole, it is necessary to apply
take ‘all’ the same point of view. 'For example, let 'there be a limited territorial
ria, ‘and the question was raised about e6 capacity in the sense of population: how many people,
Given this technology, of course, can one live on it? The answer will be: so much
how many can feed themselves in the most unfavorable years, at the lowest
com ‘harvest; it: n., - in the years of the highest relative resistance of the environment,

If in a workshop a product passes through the hands of several workers,
'kov, 'or'in a bureaucratic institution a business visitor' through the hands
several officials, then the number of manufactured pieces of the product and the

pregnant visitors will’ depend on the employee and official performing the.

#) There is a well-known joke. about an engineer who suggested that the driver “go! through the tun-
nel, 10 arshins high at one end, 6 at Evulom and on average 8, arshins, then kah
The locomotive with the chimney was only 1 arshin in height. Of course, there are no such engineers.
However, previous statisticians often took it as a measure of the “national state of affairs”
average income of the population. Considering’income as a measure of socially crystallized
“activities-resistances that people have in maintaining their lives
‘against elemental forces,—for, a value expressing the level of people’s well-being,
It is the income of the lower social classes that should be taken into account. , A

2) The vast majority of today's mathematicians are completely incapable of preparing
to pose to oneself, “what the hell” is “nothing other than an infinitely small body, or projected
ignored thickness, and “line”—body of ignored thickness and width. This is also
the power of scholastic-abstract thinking. Meanwhile, it is enough to realize the following.
The area of only 'two' dimensions, which they supposedly 'think', 'as well as the line
only of one dimension, cannot exist in perception, for they are invisible and non-
tangible; ‘cannot therefore ‘exist in representation, because it is a trace,
perceptions; therefore they cannot exist in the concept, that is, “think”, because
that the material of ‘concepts’ is provision. In reality, of course, mathematicians “think”
not what they say in their verbally contradictory definitions, but something completely different - bad
spacing and lines accessible to vision and visual representation. :

No. 13-24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE). G.

the smallest number of corresponding operations per hour. Enough ‘to’ from
10 ‘one had ‘abnormally low’ ‘working capacity, and’ labor
the rest! 9` will be paralyzed accordingly:

Modern language’ has not’ adapted’ before. these. specially to the exact
expression ‘organizational! connections. and patterns; concepts '06' active-
‘stresses—resistances’ often! vague ‘and unclear; as seen' 'from the righteous
examples, ‘sometimes. it takes 'special effort to' imagine what
It is precisely in this or ‘other case’ that we consider a manifestation of the activities of the complex,
that = - manifestation of influences or resistances of its ‘environment, and’ also on
which” parts’ of it’ to analyze: For the ‘first’ orientation it’s ‘more convenient’ to take sa-
our law is ‘somewhat’ different; ‘less strict verbal’ formula: how’ Law
least” bleu-pleasant `` conditions or) in short; like the ‘law of the least’. Immediately
are: the least favorable ‘conditions,’ the leastpositive
the guise of the point of view of the “component” “about which the matter is being discussed.”

This method of ‘expression’ is especially appropriate in matters of social
organizational ‘practice—economic; political, cultural.

Let, for example:; there is a ‘party: block’ ‘composition, two wings’ ‘of which
formed by two social strata or classes, ‘the more advanced and
more backward.” Which of the two will actually be decisive for the pro-
grams ‘and tactics: parties? According to the scheme. ‘least favorable conditions—more
‘fresh. The solution is unusual; and even’ unexpected; because ‘as it seems
bridges; ‘for the most part; advanced ‘class or’ layer ;leads’ the mature one,
mainly by developing slogans; nominating leaders, etc. Yes,
but the real ‘limit’ of the slogans and leadership is ‘exactly what
“still” may agree “the total” part of the whole; when trying to go further
block ‘connection will begin to be ‘consistently broken’, ‘as if it were broken in
campaign ‘connection of a detachment’ ‘consisting of ‘infantry: and at will the cavalry
did not limit herself to the speed of the infantry..

The principle of relative resistances does not represent; himself ‘sho’” to himself,
nothing new for science: in mechanics; in ‘physics; ‘v. technical sciences’ he
formulated ‹ long ago and ‹ applied since. big! accuracy. | But ‘tektology
makes" it universal; extending to all and any complexes; right down to
to ‘isichical and logical, and’ should show which one to use
in new, ‘more complex’ meanings This is MK from its very first days
‘consciously era may 80% va

at

ig. The law of the least in solving practical problems..

Any scientific law, and the law of relative resistances can
be an expression of either the dominance of ‘nature’ over people; 'either' power
people over. nature. The building will collapse if the inept architect does not
measured the strength of the beams with the greatest pressure; dam, reservoir
protecting fields and ‘dwellings’ from flooding;
disastrous for. their breakthrough; if not acceptedaccount ‘highest possible’
possible. lifting: arches together with the most: unfavorable combination of strength
‘oe’ currents and. wind forces; The enterprise will not survive if its organization
the unprofitable ones were not taken into account! conjuncture;) it: d: Veya znamen-
the unified trinity of national Russian tectology—“maybe, I suppose, somehow”—
expresses nothing else; kah’ ignoring the law of relative resistance
ny; depending on the lack of ‘organized’ experience and this incoherence,
that; What. usually called 'low' culture*. On the contrary, you systematically
mathematically using the law of “relative resistance” people “kill” achieve-
gAg'n greater stability of their own ‘organizing’ their technical
cultural and ideological constructions, freeing ourselves from the eternal “threat of spontaneous forces.

Tasks; in deciding ‘which’ this law’ must” ‘systematically,’ fiddle around with:
applicable, ‘countless’ and infinitely ‘varied, to him. its
there is a whole ‘number of the most important’ methods that have long been existing in ‘practice and: in
science, not generalized, scattered; and therefore ‘attached lint’ often
22 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 18—14

c. one or another area of work experience; behind these. outside of Sony" usually
are overlooked, and in addition, are absorbed with too much effort, not economically
in the sense of mental energy, in its non-generalization; lack of system. `

In general, all the tasks › related here; are divided into two types. K
first. belong to those in. which need to be overcome: “definitely-change-
changing influences. or resistance; to the second. those in which these pre-
the quantities overcome are ‘indefinitely changeable; An example of the first
type can serve any ‘building; any machine, any: weapon: different
their parts are exposed. different. by strength. pressure, friction, shock, etc.,
but... so what. these differences are based on: experience. and theoretical!: calculation,
It is possible, in general, to express by certain coefficients. Examples of second-
rogo: a child prepared by education for work and struggle. in uncertainty
lenno-changeworrying. not taken into account in advance. social ›promise; army
in a defensive position on a temporarily established front line, with
lack of objective data determining the enemy’s tactics; scientific
or a work of art published in a time little known to the author
"public", etc. under..Tasks of ‘this_and’ another type of rat: e corresponding
Actually, various general ones. methods;

Fundamental solution for the first type. is planned. ‘of course:
If it is known; that this was included. system: in such and such parts
must withstand the influences or overcome the ‘reactions of such
either of the same kind or the same size, then in these parts we have to ‘concentrate’
activity-resistance. appropriate: character and in proper manner. if-
honor. The whole difficulty lies. in that; to know the size
overcoming activities. and spread the word with sufficient activities against
them. First. is achieved. collective: everyday life, embodied.in science, second-
swarm - collective labor, giving 'technical: power over spontaneous
energies of nature, the ability to exploit them:

One might say; that humanity generally knows how to solve problems with chalk.
Builders: i. mechanics. accurate ‘calculations’ determine materials, shapes
and magnitudes, in different directions, different. parts: bridge) house, ‘machine, ra-
side instrument, ‘go under. Yueli the solution turns out to be. unsuccessful as
it still happens; And. often;—toovina’not. in: method; ® in other moments
matters: either the data on which the plans were based were inaccurate, or the calculation
errors have crept in due to the imperfection of the neuropsychic! apparatus
people who carried it out, or new circumstances appeared that were previously
were not observed, and therefore ‘could not be taken into account If 585: still
the method itself was enough; that’s right—his consciousness: ra and co-
responsibly universal, formulation: ve

However, this drawback is also an important thing. it leads to the fact that people
which. skillfully and successfully use this method/c. ‹decided on some
somedayb. technical problems, essentially simpler and easier, missed him
completely. or. apply. unconsciously, and that’s why it’s bad, just. where
the tasks are most complex and difficult: for example, in social and organizational matters; in
pedagogy, in working on a work of art; iti. In addition,

knowledge itself is not acquired economically when it is not sufficiently generalized:
one. and the same method in different areas requires special ones each time. efforts
for assimilation, because it is perceived as. something: different, new.

Here, for example, is the rule of military tactics: “the attacker has the advantage.”
society." This is one of countless particular applications. principle regarding
strong resistances. The one who strikes first chooses his place
and moment, and, implied. of course, concentrates in them. yours: strength.
When is the first strike? applied; relative 'resistance' in 'given. point
is already reduced; and if this continues, its chances, of course,
increased. French bosses; kindly. who proposed in one battle
telling the British to shoot first; were clearly. wrong if only because; what
killed. these. shots: French: already. nikakhne: could: ‘answer to ‘vih.
No. 13—14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: 23

’Yala that; who understood the rules; offensive" (offensive), as a private
waters from the universal’ principle, it is immediately obvious; that it is applicable in all
some other struggle - economic; political, ideological. And yet very
often, as experience shows, creating something new' in these 'areas, not
may’ not’foresee the ‘inevitability’ of the struggle for’ him’nevertheless only having experienced
a sufficient number of strikes acquire all the practical meaning of offensive,

Rule: concentrated action, ‘in’ others in appearance, but that-
natural ‘essentially applications, dominates’ all technology. Yes,
the use of ‘sharp instruments’ has ‘the meaning that all the force of action. transfer-
siteya na extremely! a small ‘surface, over’ the extent of ‘which the amount
molecular oe il ‘cohesion especially’ala; ‘for a dull knife or
ax this surface ‘hurts; than for 'acute, which means the same amount of times
more and’ the sum of ‘resistances that ^ need to be overcome. Impact at
this is more beneficial than “simple” pressure: with the tip because it concentrates °
action |for a very short period of time. Let us assume that the resistance in
105 times greater than the activities with which. we have in one second,
to ‘overcome it. 'It is enough'then'otik ke activity to attach not to
second; ‘and one-twentieth of a second; and the relative resistance for this
time›will not be: 10, but ‘only’ 10/20, less than one, i.e. will be overcome -
her which is ‘intended, will happen.

This is the meaning of using explosives. orcs of the chemical
the action contained in the fuwt of ‘dynamite is not as huge as usual
They certainly ‘think, and not’ much’ surpasses the One that is ‘hidden in a pound of coal.
But if’ required; ‘naru, tear off and collapse part of the rock, then, using,
Let's put in a steam engine for breaking things up, it's necessary. ‚burn, maybe - “hundreds”
pounds of coal, ‘to get the same result as the explosion of one
a pound of dynamite!" The energy of “coal combustion” is distributed “to many different
_ separate acts for a relatively long _ period of time, whereas

all the chemical activity of dynamite is spent in an insignificant amount: a small fraction
seconds, water’s avalanche-like unfolding’ of actions; during this time
molecular bonds' of rocks are broken, and then they
they do not renew themselves ‘by themselves’. But ‘if you concentrate the energy of coal in
one act of such “brevity”, “that” and coal shows such “strictness”
properties: this happens when steam explosions occur:

It is easy to understand how important the rule of concentrated is. actions,
for ‘all ideological, ‘cultural work in pedagogy, agitation’
propatande; in artistic creativity, etc. But for the most part, workers
these areas separately’ and ‘independently’ of each other’ ‘come to his understanding
niyu i'ylanomeric' application; ‘onI'm glad about my personal experience and the price
mistakes, failures. An inexperienced lecturer’ or an opatanist ‘usually with `pain’
total completeness; ‘trying not to do anything. y, tells his audience
she must know everything (should; and her perceiving activities dissipate
po! many directions, with nothing firmly assimilated
It turns out that the productivity of the efforts of both sides turns out to be the least
share? (more precisely the rule “iby” ta, 364’ paIit” ‘not much, but the founder-
but “is a suitable” here “particular” formulation of the principle of concentration
triaged ‘action; and scientific ‘specialization in its positive, pro-
the pressive side is due to the same toctolotic character *): con-
concentration of activities on the field of application in the cognitive
noah but efe. s real

$_$1 |
p +) She’ takes the negative side, ‘which, yet. ‘pridelea vyzenit. in yes:

neshem! It is enough to indicate that the rule of concentration of action serves. for solving
tion of ‘tasks that relate it’ to a definitely-changing 6redo!: accordingly ‘its’ defined
changes. (or differences, ‘its: parts). and a concentrating distribution is carried out
activities. “For an uncertain-changeable environment, as already mentioned, the solution method
different, and the first method there is insufficient and not suitable, so that the irisios created by him
Zoblivaniya, in the form of specializations, then give unfavorable results.
24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 13—14

The second type of problems are those ‘in which the environment, ‘its ‘impacts and ‘resistance’
phenomena, changing indefinitely, cannot be taken into account! in advance from ‘the side’
their unevenness. Of course; the problem may simply be unsolvable, --—
precisely when uncertain ‘changes in the environment’ are not ‘included in’
some boundaries sufficiently commensurate with the available funds ‘re-
solutions, i.e. the general supply of activities-resistances that is available for it.
For example, for ants the task of fencing the anthill from attack is impossible
external enemies in general, when such creatures are possible among themwow, kayulyudi,
but... the problem of protection from invasion by ‘other ants’ is solvable! and, other ‘insects:
ours. People are capable of collectively creating ‘fortresses’, ‘satisfactorily
opposing. everyone alive. enemies - but still unable to protect it from
tive of geological, and even more so cosmic crises.!'We must and-
to pose the question, obviously, within the framework of its “relative solvability”:

If any part of the system may be subject to the effects of neglect
vasmo force in advance, it is clear that any ‘unevenness of concentration co-
resistances, in favor of some parts, and therefore to the detriment of others, committed
completely aimless. At the same time, it is extremely dangerous, because it creates
the likelihood of a destructive result even from the relatively weak
influences, since they will come against the most fragile parts: the system:
The maximum relative stability here is achieved by a uniform ‘distribution
division of activity-resistance between all threatened links of the whole.

In this sense, the problem is generally solved—spontaneously by nature, ‘more
or less consciously and systematically by human practice. Any
Clam shell represents. approximately “uniform protection” according to
the surface of his body from mechanical and other influences; if in places ‘have-
there are deviations from this uniformity; ‘that’s already it. depending on the decision
other special tasks because; life tasks of the body: according to
If necessary, everything is decided at once, with what. these decisions are natural; from-
parts are limited to one another. Likewise,’ ‘threatened
the surface, let’s say, the builders of the fortress are trying to fence ‘evenly,
leaving no weak points as this is allowed by other life
system conditions; for example, when cities were fortified with walls, everything was within the walls.
still had to Chamber and gate for. relations with the outside world; but ›you-
necessary weakening of the protective shell. in these places it was replenished
by the efforts of the guards, etc. That. the same in the time chain of organizational
wearing: if wans. attacks are not taken into account in advance, -deno: goes, although ‘would
about a detachment of explorers passing through an unfamiliar country; populated
wild tribes, then continuous and uniform ‘protection’ is necessary; ‘her
weakening even for a short time could turn out to be fatal and strengthening
deceit without sufficient grounds would mean a fruitless waste! energy,
the conservation of which is so important in these conditions. When. becoming under-
available for accounting for an indefinite period. food opportunities
supplies, all members of the team urreVRNAYAYA: on the size of the three
rations, etc. 8

'It is obvious that problems of this kind arise, in general, when
in the cash system already. There is. a certain uneven ‘distribution
activities-resistance between its parts or links, which is harmful
for the stability of the system in an uncertainly variable environment. Typically,
such a situation is created in those very, frequent cases; sometimes a system that
paradise was formed in one setting, in accordance with its heterogeneous ones;
certain influences, finds himself in a different environment, where he
Others, for example. a cultured European who grew up in the city, occupied
a well-known position, in accordance with which his “abilities” developed
“properties”, that is, the distribution of its activities. body, ‘gets. V. dev-
natural wall or wild forests: There, among the numberless 'unfamiliar to him
opportunities 'and 'dangers, his essential knowledge of, say, textile
business, mathematics, literature or administrative technology, it turns out

ъ
No. 13-14 PVOLETARYALKULTURA; 25
no, just useless. diya of him, in much more: having been achieved through
special concentration of activities on certain functions ‹defined
nyh, organs, it. based on. reduction, energy, other functions, other
organs; it is connected by © ‘big: unevenness. "development, what" was
possible and ‘convenient in. cultural social environment" but: it may turn out
disastrous on. bosom. elemental: nature, honeycomb. blind activities kotoswarm ion
now, not .suppressed by the cultural and technical apiarat of society: “The task” is
steps in the form of the need for intense: work": the most "various organi-
new, what does activity have to do with it. the body should. redistribute from the most
gyrertrophied. functions. to less. developed. V. further development
how. he will cope. position; know and this environment is not determined
will be infinitely changeable. transform for him. -more TV.definitely-
changing: worth. arrange for him. hut, ‚and will disappear: indefinite: from-
variability of conditions. temperature and humidity; cord - he will lift up a piece
land, more. certain. character” will be acquired by nutritional conditions, etc. oh
Then it’s organizational! task. his, life: changes.. its ‘shape, passing
step by step to the first one discussed. us type, From ‘this. ‘visible; what
between both types, there is. All. intermediate. ‚steps; or rather; They. by-
constantly combined - in all the same relationships, in the manifestations of one group
activities of environments" acts as a non-tie in seagulls goth
wearing how. indefinitely changeable: that’s not it

Let two armies stand against each other. friend. Gan, which will capture: its own
hands initiative, first. will pass. c. offensive; will have to decide
task on definitely changing resistances. Area of attack
should, naturally, be the area of greatest opposition; ›bend
the front itself increases the surface of contact: ‘advancing
units with the enemy; . Moreover, “these are coming out” from behind the covers; that:
increases relative strength. enemy influence, but ‘hostile’
the army will, of course, begin. concentral, ‘what-for-her’. perhaps new
parts to attack points. Hence; first: the army must concentrate.
a sufficient amount of their strength” in this. area, aw: others support this
their number, what, maybe. required "for resistance" possible
counter-maneuvers, for development, breakthrough results, etc.: If›all this dis-
counted. ok, and relative counterthe situation turned out to be somewhere; less"
units, then. problem solved, enemy. partially or completely defeated, ‘lo

Once they sat down, the enemy was only pushed back and was holding on. durable. on" theirs + nosia

tions, with a relative resistance equal to unity, “then” the task is to perform
sings in a new form. At. There may be two cases of this. Either the forces are sufficient
to try again." blow; then follows: anew, ‘in’ ‘changed’
vow, organize a solution of the same type as ‘and; first6; or force
depleted, few reserves; falls on the “time” of the so-called “offensive”;
then, until he is outside. from the enemy’s side; task. there will be a second
type, uniform fastening, front; evil vet che silov vit
weaker ones. parts. front. a Ost

From. these examples. it is clear that in 1}; solving problems on and preschool
changing. “resistance: o otectologically” more profitable; corresponds
large, systematic. ‘in 2); transition › to. this type from. another’may.
depend not only on: the environment of influence ‘which ‚of: less’ ‘definition
divided would become more defined, but also from an active) relation.
knowledge of the system itself in this environment; influencing "man you shi tem
most. as if choosing.her resistance. ilt, peony

“The upbringing of a child is: extremely: ‘important. social-organ-
nizational. vadacha. This is; in essence; process of "introducing a new member"
in the social system: It; prepares ‘man. to that life
functions, or rather, to the sum of functions that he: in society; predetoit:
These functions, ‘the environment in which they will be performed, resistance,
< which they will have to deal with, part of ‹ may be: iredoprede".
95 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: No. 18-4
Lena in advance; ‘partly ‘lie’ outside the ‘foresight of educators. Therefore:
the conditions of the problem are dual ‘se. ‘on the one hand, ‘here is definitely-changing-
changing, © other-indefinitely = changeable: “meni: dv: UI
the tasks in different ‘historical systems’ are different.

The “more ancient” types of social organization differselect:
mom ‘everyday life; tazhov’ primitive tribal communities that developed from’ them
authoritarian-tribal, ‘and’ then.” feudal “sociality; to a large extent
the same feature is retained by the ‘first’ feudal-barter formations of the slave-
business 'various types,' serfs; and ‘even craft-urban. Everyday life
howl conservatism “assigns” the social position and functions of the Republic of Belarus to “children”
diteleiz"eyn of the military" "organizer" of the feudal lord" "must" become "the same"
the leader of the squads, the son of a ‘dependent’ Cretan” --- so “same” “not free
farmer, son” of a blacksmith - blacksmith, ^ i’ etc. ‘d, Social ‘role.’ pre-
divided in the largest share; and’accordingly `ondetermined! task: education:
it develops the ‘child’s’ activities! image 'and likeness' of 'father' or mother,
at home; sometimes in corporate “training.” Pedagogical ‘principles’
very arduous ‘reduces everything’ to imitation ‘or emechnnyacheekovu’ memorization,
and then. special ‘practical’ exercises; special’ educational
There is either no apparatus at all, or “it is” in a “primary” state. So far
the social situation is stable; this is quite enough: life is bitchy
repeats from generation to generation the same technical “and social-organizational
Zalorsky: influences; which ‘overcome the same’ ‘resistances’
elemental or human nature. “But; if' a person falls into an 'unforeseen situation'
stipulated position; ‘he clinks glasses’ in ‘huge’ most cases
powerless 'and 'helpless: If' the 'general' natural or 'social' changes
situation, ‘unadapted’ completely ‘encompasses’ the ‘whole’ life of the conservationist
tive`collective: Takuliri forced niereblelenih ‘wild and barbarian’
Russian 'ilemen: their extinction in a 'significant' proportion was common, on
the first, at least; pores/“And the extinction” of backward peoples. at 'very
even ‘peaceful contact’ ‘civilized’ ‘is often still
sharper, what? sometimes it’s difficult to fall down for immediate reasons. But
the main and common reason is one: canned foodactively formed organisms
stableonly. in conservative: when it becomes ‘changeable,
then inevitably in these or other parts, in these or other functions | in these
organisms relative: t eti ri ‘time! from" time. ‘bhaz-
‘to go lower; units: 1 No.01! And. 9 about ochaot chzkeimiya, Ut

"Change of conservative social structures
in itself ‘conditions of ‘progressive, development’, on ‘the basis of ‘contradictions, auto] t
tarnykh capitalist, - fundamentally. changes 'handles' and 'backsides'
education. The tendency to 'preserve' for children social both and
the role of their parents is more and more limited) in the beginning and in practice
is literally paralyzed by the spontaneous” forces of society: Zkyvy; nb’even’in
In those cases where it really manifests itself, children have to take
functions in the changed and continuing to change social ‘betanovka’,

that is; to have other resistances. quantities; a’ part and other’ character -
tera;. stereotypical education’ modeled on the ‘past-and then? turns out not-
sufficient. Therefore, the task of education in the ‘greatest share’ is
must be solved based on conditions that indefinitely change it:

But she can’t, it all boils down to this and for this reason.
But how much l ›society and the contradictory-progressive “tina” is deprived
integrity and anarchic, because. in the relations of its elements" 'significant
the place belongs to struggle; ‹disingression insofar as ‹man‖ is in him′ udki
follows behind him. social ‘position and function only’ on the’ basis’ ‘as
something specific. their sustainable advantage over others: ‘A’ Anya
advantageous: is, “of course; only” as a result of solving the “task” “on
definitely-changing. resistance. 'Means, . veozzhimo; hairdryer and this
was given. education. But in what way? $1 per dress
No. 13-14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: 27

On one of them. we have seen the previous illustrations; which is not a transition from the first,
tectological systems of a less favorable type’ task for the second dependencynot only
from food; legs of the goth-‘active attitude of the kin of himself’ opposing her
complex; ‘in’ a long-standing case of a person: possible ‘on this! side’ choice `6e’’60-
resistances;: of course: only to a known extent! degrees; in a limited ‘mass’
pigabe. ‘This choice is education! can be predefined in the form of socialization:

Indeed, specialization in this type of work, with 66 special
materials: and 'tools, predetermines'the character' and 'the magnitude of the 'resistance'
pressures that a person will have to deal with; allows 'most
exactly: and ‘definitely. balance the ‘costs’ of his ‘activities with’ counteraction
actions of 0objects of labor’ systematically ‘achieving. calculated! results:
It's more obvious! This. in technology - organizing things; but that's the same meaning
specializing. aspects of education in the matter of’ ‘organization’ of people and ideas.
Deploying an increasing 'sum' of energy 'in' the struggle of those 'elected' and 'all'
more' accessible to its calculation / resistances, 'a specialist person can achieve
promotes increasing results; this ‘forms’ the main’ and’ stable pre-
the property on which he ‘relies: in maintaining: his social role
and positions.’ The blacksmith is in ‘his own’! labor ‘sphere’ has business ‘definitely
changing 'resistances, metallovul-fire'it'ir? in ‹this'on surpasses-
descends from other people: those, since they encounter © the same’ resistance
behavior, for example, ‘using ‘metal things that’ break,
bend; spoil; one way or another violating their expectations, -=forced to
approaches them as complexes of resistance. ‘indefinitely changeable. But
sailor: has a completely similar superiority” in the case of’ decision’ another:
group ‘task associated with the ‘resistances’ of the aquatic environment; ‘which for
blacksmith and other people. is indefinitely changeable; etc:

However, this is only one side of the educational problem: behind the
yours! ‘specialty, in all: the rest of their environment, ‘social and natural-
noah; a person still must consider it with the ‘general’ task ‘on’ the non-opsparsely
changeable! conditions. It corresponds to the other side of upbringing; direction
concerned with the development of organs and functions “in general”, “regardless of any”
either. pre-designated ‘special’ ‘situational and intended purposes.’ Here
enters. most of what is called: Nutrition®; and so
called; general education": 207 about yd

ical education: bubonnin$ of course, ikwu konevrvativnyh
systems; ‘know’ ‘because’ it’ ‘did not’ refer to the pre-determined
social ‘function’ of a person, for example: ‘strengthening . muscles of the future warrior
and hardening his body against bad weather and traveling hardships; it ‘didn’t become
curled; ‘as an educational task: it was carried out spontaneously}! uvamo. -60fight”,
in children's 'games and' child labor! ‘family and! interfamily life.
Society of the ‘new’ type}’ ‘contradictory-progressive,’ was forced
everything’ more’consciously! put forward this side of general education as a special
and an important goal, precisely ‘because ‘by itself’ ‘it’ ‘is achieved by everything
less ‘and worse’ with increasing: social\‘differentiation, © unchangeable
its inevitable after-childhood - the narrowing of the educational environment: It is only worth
imagine. ‘to yourself. how 'spontaneously educational' influence is excluded
nature' 'from' the environment of 'town' children, 'even dominant' 'Klasseov,
to what extent does their physical health suffer from the miasma of dust alone?
air of the newest major ones. centers, ‘to ‘what degree is one-sided’ rab-
the body of children and adolescents is changing; ‘working in factories, etc.
weakened in ‘many parts’ and ‘functions; non-triple''unformed'
organisms ‘may predetoitv! uncertain fluctuations of the environment ‘0 habitual
from the new furnishings of the workshop to the most whimsical combinations of the latest war,
land, sea and air! Question about the uniform, all kinds of
cases, the strengthening of these organisms is increasingly persistent. moved forward. herself.
life. before social. she is already a teacher. has been developing for a long time
methods for solving it are hygienic; sports. and others;

th
28 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. \ No. 13th

The question ‘about ‘general’ education’ has quite a similar meaning,
i.e.: education of the “neuro-psychic system” for “not” determined in advance:
possible. Man, : let's put it; was born; lived and grew up in the capital, where
resistance: for, spatial zi’ time orientation ‘reduced
to an insignificant amount, with inscriptions on the streets, numbers ‘on’ houses;
electric clock and `nroch:; and now, he “has to. military ‘conditions’;
wade; e by a detachment. unfamiliar places; in the forests and swamps among
dangers from people and elements; he is forced to determine the 'direction'
pocket compass and. map; =if even that is not ‘according to’ the sun’ and: the stars, and
on them. think about the time; without some knowledge of geography, astronomy'
he would be doomed to death aeonim si his ‘saputnikil Or) for example, from
serene and sleepy 'provincial' life, a person gets caught in a hurricane" :с0-
social 'elements of the revolutionary era, with its "unexpectedly fluctuating"
streams of destructive activities; ‘how to ‘stand; where to ‘direct’ ‘your’
efforts that do not involve familiar objects? About the part of it; ‘if it can
rely on: sufficient. general introduction to ‘history and social
sciences... These are 'illustrations: in comparatively extreme 'cases; ino in’ less-
On a larger scale, such things happen at every step, and even these extreme
These cases occur at least once in the lives of most women behind NN
one: once is enough “for everyone

The development of a pedagogical task does not end with: she, this: double: ee
production, subordinate. principle ‘relative’. eresistances; ‘but’ for
understanding. next etalt, us! will be needed. do ‘one more. step ov out."
tectological teachings. patterns. A. for now: let’s stop: on which one
At the same time, a real solution is achieved: the problem by ›society;” not' 'realized
this task, how. ‘organizational, his’ wallpaper
tectological: experience. .

First of all, a constant delay in education is revealed here.
body! . material 'and'ometodov'. in relation to changing conditions
social existence. “So, long after ‘the collapse, the authoritarian-
conservative 'fundamentals' of economic life, bourgeois. family; and ‘even’ school
continues. lead the children! c. ‹strict in spirit: ‘authoritarian: dieciliny; killing-.
giving initiative and. criticism. Meanwhile, such upbringing; quite: iodine-
walking for the society in which a person had to live his life! then:
predetermined by other paths, brings great harm in the world of anarchy
logical struggle of everyone against: everyone, ‘with him! changeable. directions and co-)
tannias of human ..forces, if necessary: “this” and “thing.
objective. re-evaluation * of conditions and independently. ‘act, don’t. missing out
moment. Life requires a continuous solution to the new. tasks, second. ira,
and preparation’ is given’ for: solving ‘an outdated problem of the first type 1); lotto #

Another’ illustration is a long, - ‘persistent “preservation of: ancient languages”
in secondary and higher bourgeois schools. Meaning. that one. and the other is preparation
organizers of social practice, c. various scale. For. famous
era, classicism was, although partial, still important. moment ov: decision
organizational tasks. specialization; as she 'lay within'
certainty. Latin. was. tongue. international, - communication, and may
collective generalized. experience, “scientific” experience, as they call it; by
to the advantage of the organizer. Development. new. public rn d
barter And. Torre-capitalist ‘at’ every step ‘put: organization’:
tory classes, both old and those nominated by him. for “shift”, “peredolno”
new provisions; new. contradictions and difficulties. To. amazing
overcome them. had to. lean on. ‘on › all. and social with experience"
past - here. Most of all, the Greek-Roman wood was given, - and. involoyaschodo,

About the Promo Auger religion, the “law of Bodgia“ in schools applies. specifically to the "survivors"
“Vvorygarno-Wonso plain pedagogy. Renigia teaches how to relate in life, pak k’ ye a
new higherI rule order; where everyone performs the task! him
meaning, humbly and submissively, i.e. ‚without initiative and without: kritini, . th;
No. 1854 NROLETARIAN ‘CULTURE. 29

scientific acquisitions ‘which: ‘published: ! also in Latin,” the language.
I WHAT the recognition of the ancient ‘languages depended on’! overcoming the 'huge challenge'
life resistances in organizational work. But in the developed bourgeoisie
aanom‚ the world - these conditions have disappeared; a huge mass of labor; What's the cost?
fell in. colleges, gymnasiums, lyceums, universities, etc. for study
‚ancient languages, has ceased to ‘serve as a ‹medium for solving real life
tasks: howling “this omaesa’ energy: ‘distracted from the line of real ‘resistance’
tivleniya; with whom ‘people. was coming! Etaikivalsya)) 217 count

Very often also: the principle of ‘relative’ resistances is violated
and in the case of a training session about new gazyks. "Children of educated Nlasvs
very often © early childhood are taught, heshchekhv family, a‘ then ‘and v. school,
two or three ‘foreign’ languages. This really takes away a huge amount of effort
free: forces’ them.” psyche. There are many such professions in which
‘large, space is occupied by ‹respective; life's resistances? Very
a little; diplomats; commercial translators: and literary; partly
sailors, some groups of scientists. But - parents and educators ‘usually and ‘not
put in question, thus; For them, it’s all about preparation

to the underlying: real resistances,: a‘simply’ oz otradikionno-conditional
`education “oe poyasninan Nyamhi iva NOaNUUNVATO pota

A similar lack of organizational perspective is usually the case
physical education. Gymnastics performance; children's 'ypres' and now also
rarely starts from the question "for what.real processes: life struggle
‘can these or those used serve as preparation methods? techniques;‘and their choice

in this sense it often happens. ‚very ‘inappropriate’. A "hardening"
child: organism, this thing; seemed to be the most cosbody' 'app-
application of the principle of relative resistance.. Other parents who consider
‘necessary! harden children against the cold; dress them in! cold chyugoda
much easier than dressing yourself: But) if, as is natural to assume,
children, having grown up, will dress as warmly as their parents do now, then
What will this increased degree of hardening do for them? ‘A ‘she; something' this
body, diverting a ‘significant amount’ of blood! to the skin and

‚leading to hypertrophy ‘them! vessels. `Characteren' widely 'spread in
In Europe, the custom: or stubborn fashion is to force children to walk naked
calves, Whereas u. adults. These parts of the body are always well covered.

and Thirsty Child. to come. n the era of the onset of puberty
overcome the brutal storms. psycho-physiological’ spontaneity” ‘his’ 60b-
natural organism, having a deep influence on the rest of life.
But. until now. they don't meet often, educators; which `zyranve
would be considered ©.this. would take care: to prepare the young being’ inescapably
refugee shocks. . E VoVe Voe

“The most interesting: illustration of ‘ignoring! law. relative
resistance. represent the families of many idealistic intellectuals: educated
walking in the spirit of extreme humanity”, extreme gentleness” and “caringness,
repelling hundreds of children whenever possible: all suffering, all trumpeting” and
harshness of life: What can these greenhouse plants oppose! harsh oud"
frame› of true reality? These are almost doomed to death in advance.

`As we see, already. one area of education provides any number of examples
ditch of practical importance. studied: principle; 'the way 'he gravitates
dominates over people, but they do not control it consciously. 5 17

2. In defending the remnants of the past, new justifications and justifications are often put forward.
nia; for example, school classicism was defended under the pretext that it helps the general
development of logical features, and development of idealism in a child’s soul, etc. Nek
needs’take into account all/these arguments: they would have meaning only in
“Duecha, if it were ‘proved that heh, positive results cannot be achieved
other pedagogical ways that actually prepare the body for the conditions of its
social and natural environment; only then would it be possible to consider classicism
%as expensive ‘costly, but’ necessary solution to the educational task in its uncertain
part’ (i.e. relating to uncertain ‘changes’ in the environment). 2 $03 waterR
30 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 13-14

For our own sake. era, perhaps more than for “any” other “dra-
valuable. and. its explanatory meaning. He 'alone' is able to 'solve' the whole
row. the painful cultural mysteries of ‘time’; seeming to undermine everything
what faith in; development of sociality ‘humanity’s main ‘meaning of civili-
tions. VA o

Multi-million herds of people belonging to the most cultural
nations and their most advanced classes, before our eyes, they rushed
fuck each other with that. burning zoological bitterness, like ‘their distant
bestial ancestors. London 'i. Paris, great centers of world culture,
arranged. like this. wild patriotic: pogroms; like half-Asian
Moscow... Vojeka. most advanced nations ‘committed the same monstrous
cruelty, like the Kurds or Cossacks, Ingush or Moroccans. Gentlemen-
officers are free. In England they shot Russian prisoners of war. revolutionary
sioners ‹ together: © generals. Tsarist-despotic Russia; `Not only
priests of obsolete religions; legs the highest ‘intelligentsia; ‘poets, artists,
even people. science proudly. went to the head of general brutality, etc. d; I don’t know
does it mean that there is only the progress of technology and external forms of life,
but no, progress: human ‘nature’ is enough: the whirlwind of history to disrupt
< European paper cloak of humane civilization, so as to lift the ‘reveal-
Rugileya eternal: troglodyte? |

In reality: this!'not'so;zi explanation. striking ‘tlazoproti-
The law gives the following: least favorable conditions. |re": y

The newest “capitalist society is extremely” “heterogeneous”
in composition, and represents; ‘in the words of ‘one German’ professor,
"gradation of the most diverse existences. At the same time, the lower levels
social development differs much less in different countries than
average. and. higher: differences) of small quantities; naturally; ‘not’^ can be
great, - a London hooligan from the bourgeois class and a dark savage
iso-deaf: blocks! ‘according to’ ability ‘and’ propensity for destructive actions
stvayam approximately (similar to the corresponding types of Russian capitals.
Let's assume that c. London's 6" million 'residents are only one 'percent,
i.e. 60, thousand similar elements; when ‘some kind of public kata-.
the stanza will give them a slogan and the opportunity to unite for one moment of this
quite enough; to!' carry out" a cruel pogrom; for example: against everyone
Londoners, Germans... Perhaps; that in Moscow out of the ‘millions’ there were ‘90 pro-
cents of people who stood at ‘this’ level, i.e. million eight hundred’ thousand”iri
similar conditions! they produce the same pogrom, and the magnitude
destruction is no more,: because: ‘its object is not more significant,’ ‘cases.
Huge; inequality. culture will be disguised by ‘equality’ nishah
complexes of the cultural system.

This is not enough. Modern ‘cultured person’; ‘taken ov. separately,
neither is there a homogeneous whole. His motor system concludes. also
gradation, layers; ‘from/ lower to ‘highest, from animal: instincts’ cave-
ancestor “to pure” social: “idealism in its various forms”
different classes” Igopyat when ‘external influence’ is ‘sufficient’
precise force, directional! to the ‘lower’ complexes of the isicho-motor system,
will overcome their inertia: and’ will take them out of balance, two. ‘man, can
prove yourself: the same. natural destruction; although in.’eehihike’“‘one
lower group: “forms reactions” maybe; one 'tenth, av 'isihik
the other - nine tenths. l K

This "equal"nienie in the lowest way" 'speaks out especially brightly, in herd
actions and emotions of the capital.. Golpa, there is. meeting. individuals associated
based on physical, proximity, direct: imitation; ‘‹Ahegoodey-
The effect is concentrated on those groups of mental reactions that are
most’ the same’ for everyone; but such are precisely the hanging groups; higher;
with their complex differentiation, diverge much more. Therefore. in the crowd
the person who saved. only. small: leftovers. zoological heritage
No. 13 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. "1

in his psyche, he can commit. the same atrocities, Jacques another, in which
this heritage takes precedence over sociality; and a man is courageous, with
normal excitement of the highest. complexes of his hemorrhage, fearlessly
looking in. eyes. death, maybe. give in to panic fucking. along with
weak cowards, etc. 48

“The law of the least favorable conditions reigns harshly over man.
quality until “it” takes possession of it. Here, for tectology, the question arises—about.
how to master. them in cultural. sphere, so that in, it turns out like this. alignments
according to the lowest, which "subordinates civilization to the remnants of savagery, even
they were. quantitatively. much more than accumulated! her, activities. This
question about organizational ‚transition ‚from the ‘lowest values’ to the average; its
a fundamental decision is required. another ‘step in tectological, isol-
knowledge, - formulas of the smallest. here. nodfetlennog

And, The structure is cohesive. and. beaded, x

Structural stability. any. systems can also be considered from
one point of view, Her environment. influences. on. her, like ion, to her environment,
noobrodatdeyano: hell theme beer. they both touch, c. "border region"
“sti”, understanding this word tectologically, “and not only spatially. - Veli-
rank of the border region. i.e. number.of.contacts, maybe. age
become or decrease. For example, when. the turtle retracts its head and paws, or
a person “shrinks,” this quantity becomes. less; when politicalthe organization sends out agents. And. agitators. at the following points: or. social
circles; Where. earlier. did not work, it increases; also Iv. in that case
if a scientific theory.extends.to new groups, facts, history. p:.Two
complex. two, systems, . similar, etc. equal in other respects, may
differ exactly. V. this.. Arises. the question is how such changes or knowledge
differences are reflected on. structural stability. mon

Here's the simplest one. ,happening. From two equal quantities of the same metal
two rods are made. equal length, let's say, in. meter—but ‘one. equal
thickness throughout, & the other - bead-shaped", with alternating
<’constrictions and extensions, ‘Properties of that and. another. will turn out to be. in general
in some cases are different. Resistance to fracture is less than ‘y’, clear-shaped; if
the environment is such that it oxidizes them, then. and will rust. he's more likely. In a cold environment
he will. faster. lose heat; but... in a warm, faster, will and acquire
ve. Its static electrical capacity and current resistance are greater. more significant
etc. All are consequences of the Greater Brown surface. eumma Rau
touches with Wednesday..

Obviously, whether deco is about the physical surface, how. in this
case, or about other contacts with the environment, it doesn’t matter what. there are more of them
the lower the concentration of resistance activity in the average
per unit of such a “border region”; And. moreover, in capillary forms
this concentration is still uneven, representing more from point to point
hesitation. Consequently, according to the law of relative resistances, destruction
communication. of these forms, their disorganization is accomplished more easily.

In a more general form, it can be expressed as follows: “negative, selection”
manifests itself more intensely, for. “rosary” forms. E.g. cooling. rod
there is a negative selection of its thermal activities; it: happens
faster. for, clairvoyant. rod than for a flat +

‚. Sgrovenie. more even”, less branching, in general, roioona
no. “beaded”, we denote. terminom "unity".

"So, for complexes that are more fused, the selection is less
is intense, and is it positive? But... obviously that. and him too. Where pro-
the heater comes, i.e., the Tedla eruption, more. assimilates than
more assimilated, clear ‚rod at equal time va: more ^

7). See in i. vy pp. 12-86, and, the next one: olerk.
32 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 13—44

zetslova: energy. Through ‘more quantity’ fer ree en so in
zvimilation' from‘her relatively’ more: about
'Out of the general' solution to the issue 'about martyr' what! runu O ZIVNNY

for maintaining “and ‘developing’ complexes: #00‘ and whose rims: blio-
it flies continuous, under the positive one it flies beaded. p s

This’ knows’ ‘and the turtle, which’ is drawn in’ with all sorts of ‘negative
from the point of view of “conditions”, “and the person who” is “suffering” from the cold NN 6
scientific, tektological formulation makes it possible to protogo’i`et
solutions: a variety of organizational problems that are complex and:
difficult ‘in the usual’ setting. Irimer can “get her by: question 6 pre:
‘properties’ ok her dying IYi I aEOYANiY tina’ ani at
various” conditions I 11 >

Of these two types, Zoneboyavolyaov understands as ‘his’ VODO,
i.e. characterized by the presence of a center to which one gravitates and with
with which all other parts are closely connected, but subordinate to it. systems, which are
‘etea ‘more’ ‘flowing’; federal s. ‘more’ than ‘connection of the part,’ related
specifically ‘autonomous, ‘prepresents’’ the case of beaded ‘forms’ “For example, royal
Russia, 'bureaucratic - republican France 'were' centralistic;
pre-war ‘Aaglia, Lunch: TI Taty, CHU Switzerland were, but: ‘compared’ with them,
‘federal: in the party strengthening the power of the leadership center’ expresses ten:
trend “towards unity”, strengthening of the “autonomy of local and bi-national organizations”
tion-sk'chetochnetiu' retitiovnaya 'sect with a certain' and etroga,; 'all times:
the shared dogma is more united than the scientific or ‘philobothecian’ school, including’
"expecting" different ‘shades’ or currents, etc. under. These characteristics and ourgeneral form: ‘precisely; to make sure; what is the `federal' structure
more profitable than ‘sri’ ‘pleasing living conditions, under the influence of positive
selection, centralistic" - more favorable when the selection
negative. In the first case, the autonomy of the parts allows them to better
to return, to develop more freely, to make fuller use of the influx of energy, sufficient
influenced by the environment, “social and natural; secondly, their connections, sick. other-
new ‘and ‘close; further! are held against the 'destructive' movements of t
can be illustrated with countless examples. ^^ loaCh
lcd '' State 'system of the Swiss Republic, ' United. TITOV, “PavLI with’ her
fire ‘local. ‘self-government within’ and its ‘colonial- -federative-
connections would be possible only thanks to ‘exceptionally favorable
life 'conditions' which historical history has set for them. On the contrary,
states that developed 'in 'long,' cruel wars, surrounded by 'gates,
could only stand on centralist foundations; these were the Votoch-
new ‘despotisms, Robsia, France: For political parties are found
such” kb Tobotnomeniya: difficult external conditions are “easier” to tolerate when
more ‘elite’ structure, “for example, division into” factions then “especially
harmful, as evidenced by the experience of Russian recreation centers during the reaction times.*
In the event of a particular deterioration in the situation, communication between central and local
formations expressing the “beaded” side of the party structure, inevitably
were torn, and the party turned into a series of practically disparate groups.
If unity was maintained, only as the unity of a ‘program’ or ‘dogma’,
which’ then’ was’ t6m ©more severe; This is an olitic type, but of a different kind,
namely’ ideologically-spirited. 3

Illustration. from psychology p te Bobfbnniya: rea Aristotle
called” “majorpsychia” and “micropsychia”, expansion of ‘1 and narrowing of the soul.
Pleasant, joyful: sensations; corresponding to’ ‘increased inflow
Energies in the neuro-ischemic system are located about to be developed in
vev sides”communication"60‘environment’ - to enhance the ‘activity’ of the external senses,
an increase in mobility, an increase in “sympathetic” tendencies, etc.
Against; painful ‘painful sensations expressing negative
selection, cause, as it were, a curtailment of the soul, a weakening of attention to the surroundings =
depressing, weakening of all perceiving activity, decreased general

No. 13—14 SPAN. RUSSIAN› CULTURE. 93

"with other people; the desire for 'peace', etc. So 'the body adapts
Oblyaye, ‘transitions. from more precise relationships to more cohesive and
conversely, the human psyche follows the same law as the body of a turtle.
“‘and’The terms—beaded” and “fused” form—are accepted by us only conditionally,
because there were no better ones. Their disadvantages are not limited to the fact that
they inspire: providing information about the physical structure; whereas the matter is about
any organizational combinations. But also for’ physical committees -
“preciseness” and “elegance” do not necessarily correspond to those
specific. images that are involuntarily evoked by these words. Case
goes, we must remember, about the relative number of contacts with the hered,
_and only '06 this. If you wanted to compare two cylindrical rods of the same
volume ‘and equally even throughout, without any expansion or
contractions, then there may still be the same difference between them. One is shorter.
and thicker, the other is longer and thinner: then the first has a smaller surface,
the second ‘more,’ and ‘the second will discover, comparative to the first, all “beaded”
properties: breaks easier, heats up and cools faster, rusts more quickly,
‚.i’ir: Noeeeli shortened and thickened the first cylinder ‘to the point that it
will take the form of a disk, then it will also have “bead-like” properties.” Most
high unity ‘represents a sphere homogeneous in internal structure.

This means that clarity is generally characterized by uneven connections in different
different parts of the complex or in different directions; the higher their uniformity,
the greater the 'unity'. ` "from

Interesting and’important; that these concepts are quite applicable not only in
aboutwandering; but also in temporary structural relations.

Thus, many complexes of activities change over time wave-
figuratively; ‘as if ‘expanding and contracting. Web oscillatory processes--psi-
chemical and generally organic, molecular, ethereal - one can predict
twist in the form of streams, then. expanding, then narrowing on its way;
depicting this graphically, we obviously obtain bead-like forms. And all of you-
waters 0b of these forms remain in force here. For example, if you compare waves
of the same nature, let us assume, ethereal light, then of them the rosary character
ter‘ is more sharply expressed; obviously in’ shorter ones. Once having arisen in! global
environment, all waves, one way or another, are absorbed by its various complexes
substance ‘dispersed into. it, and perhaps even the ether itself, is a trace
strictly; found: under negative selection. And from here it follows that for
their stability is more favorable’ forms less’ clear, i.e. such, in
whose wavelength is greater. And indeed, the shorter the vibrations, the
they are more easily absorbed by ‘tiny opaque particles’; longer
new ones are not absorbed; ‘as if ‘bending around these ‘particles, according to the laws’ of the so-called differential
factions. ‹Since partial absorption of ray energy from
incomplete transparency. environment, to the extent that the rays are violet, of all visible
characterized by the shortest wavelength, should be attenuated by
compared to others, especially red ones. This is how it is accepted by ‘physics’
chesical theory; spectral ‘analysis’ apparently ‘confirms this: in
spectrum the most distant stars violet ‘rays are relatively weakened
Lena; ‘as it shows’ comparison with the spectrum. closer stars
same type’ 1). a,

The life of our body follows the type of vibrations: during the day it develops
more activities than at night, more in summer than in winter - a number of expansions
and s’constrictions; In life. humanity as a whole prevails, in general, put it"
telial ‘selection: it grows; his strength ‘increases. Under these conditions
precision in time must be beneficial for him;and indeed,
at the cost of a nightly decrease in the body’s work, a daytime increase in
its intensity; the greater the scope of this vibration, the higher,

}) Previous data about this has recently been disputed by some, but here
the matter can only be about the magnitude of the absorption coefficients, and not about the absorption itself
character. ; .

Iroletarian culture. No. 13-14. 3
\
34 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: No. 13-14

Consequently, the greater the intensity of work, the easier it is for people. overcome
nature's resistance. But if the body finds itself in) conditions. negative
nogo selection, for example. chronic malnutrition, then, the ratio. will. other;
how. the greater the range of daily fluctuations, i.e., the more intense daytime life
body, the smaller it is. can. withstand” and the Russian with the Cretan, who
However, this scope is smaller and will withstand. others, Vova minok: an
than the English worker. N ri" ‹

Here, as in many other cases, the organizational properties of the Euro,
‘I’m not different from. those that space reveals.

It should be noted... that the question. o. meaning. beaded and fused structure
we considered in relation to. to an uncertain environment, to conditions. polo-
residentnovo. m negative. . selection in general, pranaima.- diverse and
. volatile influences not specifically concentrated. on certain parts
complex. Right there, where. there is also a stable one. concentration of external
activities. or. resistance, but, of course, the task is definitely
changing. conditions, and the question is already. don't reduce it to more or
fewer contacts..., oli, nair., negative selection.
most strongly manifested for one part, the system, then to preserve
the whole. It’s beneficial for this to happen. was" more significant, developed; i.e. from at
In negative selection, a certain uneven distribution turns out to be more favorable.
noe v. connections. So, in all machines, parts are exposed. increased friction,
pressure, torsion, stretching, are made or more massive, or from more
durable, i.e.. more tectological, more coherent. material; and this, of course,
gives to the whole complex. more. rosary; character; uniformity was
would be unprofitable, But. it only means that “certain and particular relationships”
always. limit and modify the use of schemes. Aviki: ah
unknown. ratios. Niva. types of soma

#

u. no it would be equal

The expression of structural ‘stability’ `‘is. av frames
formulated by e-Latelier for individuals. And. chemical us
reality tectological,, I}-@, universal: -7 8]
The system. . You can call it “equilibrium”, but it protects: “its
given; structure in a given environment. ‚Ordinary. illustration - veee: vgih. calm-
nom condition. If, for example, one cup of them is given, for example: half-
the wife is a weight, then the cup begins to lower it, and the other one begins to raise it
rocker. from. horizontal, becomes inclined: structural change
tion, But according to that. As things happen, in the system itself there are countermeasures.”
action. to him: nashka.s. falls like a weight. s. slowing down, ‘and: only until’ emanates-
no limit beyond which it begins. even reverse movement; igafter.row
fluctuations are installed, new, modified rhinolev yulredyaldemoya willow:
strict mechanical conditions. 2... Yao o
The illustration is more complex: water and ice in. one vessel ri. 0 S. i.e.
at freezing and tanning temperatures" If. heat. vessel, then - part of the ice
absorbs the influent. thermal energy, passing into water, m: this counter-
acts on heating: the temperature of the mixture is maintained the same; no shock
All the ice will melt. What if, instead. heating, the same mixture. subject to increased
given pressure, then part of the ice, again turning into water, volume, what-
the swarm is smaller, the. most counteracts the increase in pressure ‘inside. mixtures;
A mixture of liquid and solid. mercury when heated: it also reacts by melting,
opposing. change. temperature; but... on. high blood pressure
reaction: the opposite part of the mercury freezes. Why? Notomu. that mercury;
atThere's a huge majority. bodies, in solid form, occupy volume. less;
than in a liquid, and therefore the increase in pressure in the mixture is counteracted
not melting, but freezing of mercury; it happens; water, with the exception of
there are opposite volume ratios, therefore the same is opposite

®

No. 18-14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No.

action. is achieved. reverse, way 1); If! in an electrical conductor
direct current circulates, but any change in this current causes
name self-induction, which is directed towards food ‘this B’
reduces it, and so on under 3;

Le Chatelier's law is formulated as follows: B

‚will, system, equilibrium is exposed to: influence; en Any more 'of
Conditions of equilibrium, to and from it, processes arise, O so that ‘contra-
act on this ‘change’

It has long been known from experience that this ‘law’ is valid. not only
for. physical. and chemical systems, but also for) many others. Yes, noisy
organisms under normal conditions react to external influences similar
same. way. If. human: ‘body. subject to cooling, in it _ un-
oxidative and other chemical processes begin to intensify over a long period of time,
developing. Teilotu;`eeli: same. heat ‘it: from the outside, then °increases sweating
division with evaporation absorbing heat. This is the ‘emygsl’, ‘shrinking’
from.cold, at. what reduces the cooling surface; ‘m when’ Cherenakha.
hiding, at any unfavorable influences, in your shield, ‘this; again:
However, a decrease in the surface of the external influence, —— According to the law
Weber-Fechner, according to: as the external grows! irritation sensation does not increase
to the same extent, but ‘only in proportion to its logarithm, t: -6. compare
really everything is slower.?); this means, together with the force of ‘external’ irritation
marriage increases, everything; faster, 'resistance' to him, 'so' 'up to' nervous
centers, the energy of the most powerful, irritations reaches in the smallest proportion;
otherwise these ‘centers, with: their subtle sensitivity, depending ‘on the gentle
buildings, quickly; would be destroyed. Yes, oursRhenium still perceives light
6th magnitude stars; but: light irritation from the solar disk is approx.
actually four million million times more significant; what kind of brain would it be
<capable of directly withstanding such differences in the strength of influences?

It is possible by: simple ‘analysis showed’; ‘that the `` balance ‘jam’ is
change co; any system that retains its given structure in a given environment.
Let's begin. co. comparatively. simple and’ very typical example, ‘system—

“water and ice” at `0°, Сч”; (Let it’ be exposed to ‘heating. Ooglaeno’ co-
temporary scientific symbolism, this ‘means that the ‘vibrations’ of ‘molecules around
environment they become ‘more energetic, and their blows, ‘transmitted
water molecules: i.oldaz=stronger? This’ energy of motion: Particles,
expressed in their “temperature”, there is an activity of the same order as their
the clutch is capable of removing windows II OVVVTAG to her. “So here _ and.
happens;

Heated up: water molecules ‹ theirs: its tameon shockkeys, VEN
the excess of its energy of movement to the boundary 'ice molecules. ‘Excess
this one is paralyzed by the activities of ice adhesion until’ ‘is’ equalized by © vimy;
and then ‘complete disingression is predicted, which, as’ we know, ‘causes
breaking the ‘connection: superficial! a particle comes off and goes into the mass.
liquid water. All excess thermal energy acquired by the particle before
That moment, “went” to “fight” the clutch activities, to “so that” the pair:
lick 'em; therefore, the “kinetic ‘energy’ of the particle itself” turns out to be not
more than it was; and ‘lost previous’ is measured by ‘temperature `0°. “The same ‘iro-.
comes ‘and with the following particles of ‘ice’ Thus, when ‘heating-
of the total ‘mass of water’, in the ‘ice-bordering’ region is supported
previous level`0°; working with this heat until it disappears,
I'm going here

1) The exceptional properties of water are explained by the fact that liquid water has 6 EU properties.
chemical ‘compound, &` p447thief! ice' in. proportions; iziiiiiiichizen © ri and
pressure, submissive,therefore, the law of solutions. ,

‚_?) Otherwise: if the first increases exponentially, re 1:9:4:B:
16:39 and so on, then the second - = in arithmetic, i.e. for example, respectively 1:2: 8:4: zu 6...
The line ratio is positive:

3*
86 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 18-24

If things go well. not about heating, but about “increasing” pressure, then this.
means that the kinetic energy of environmental particles” on average
for each particle does not: increase, but the number of their impacts increases,
acting on the border area of this system. And’ here; from particles
pressure activity added to the particles: transferred into it. They
increase the frequency of collisions between particles; ‘striving’ thereby
reduce the range of their movements And again; these infused activities
capable of conjugating and entering into disingression ‘with the adhesion of molecules
ice; during disingression, as in that case) they are torn off and reattached
relate to liquid, and since the volume of water. less; than the volume of ice, the pressure
tion is thereby reduced.

But, as already mentioned, water is an exception. Neli-take runes like-
system, nair., “solid mercury -=liquid mercury”, then’ is observed directly
the opposite. Additional activities! pressures’ enter into disintegration
her with. adhesion of particles of the solid body of the system, ‘a’ with’activities, anti-
acting clutch. in: liquids. Pressure ‘reduces the amplitude (di-
max) movement of liquid particles, so: that this amplitude becomes smaller
distances between particles, ‘and’ they ‘oscillate’ already! without going over each other,
not mixing freely, but holding about one middle position
knowledge: this is exactly how particles of a solid body move; Freezing occurs
some liquid; at the same time; however, it decreases, which is how
in the previous case, the melting of the ice reduces the pressure.

Why is it that the activity of one type - + - force of pressure - paralyzes; by
disingressions, in two different cases are not the same; and directly ‘opposite’
new, activities, as if ‘choosingthose that are ‘necessary’ according to Le Chatelier’s law?—
The point is precisely in the choice, only ‘not’ in the conscious; of course & in
spontaneous selection.

Molecular movements. scientific theory presents ‘in the form of’numerous
large and diversely directed “infinitesimal” activities. If in
the system enters from the outside, such new activities; then; ‘obviously’ follows
understand all possible combinations of them with the previous ones, all sorts of their elementary
collisions, their conjugation, disingression. But of these combinations, some will be
stable, others unstable; the first will be held, ray
engage in selection.

Thus, in the “water-ice” system, external pressure activities should be equal to
fall into disingression, partly with the movement of liquid molecules, transforming them into
solid state, partly with the adhesion of ice molecules, melting into
since ice takes up more volume than the water from which it was obtained
in cases of the first kind, this will cause the pressure to increase; in cases
of the second kind it will decrease. The question is, as many of these betrayals as:
will they be more stable? va

The answer depends on the structure of the system in which these processes are included.
while it is unknown, it is not excluded; neither one nor the other possibility. "But we must
remember that exactly the same processes took place in the system: before, ‘before the veto=
capture of new activities: separate. water particles turned into ice, increasing
honoring the inner. pressure, separate. particles: ice-into-water, ‘decreasingsda+
phenomenon. If some of these changes were more permanent,
this whole system would not at all be a system: equilibrium, its structure
would be continuously transformed, in the first case into. one side; in. second-
rum to the other. This did not happen: those changes that went beyond the known
border, immediately turned out to be less stable and more suitable
rum The structure of equilibrium systems, for modern scientific thinking,
and is characterized by the fact that they contain the opposite. processes,
mutually neutralizing at some level; The case is presented like this
waythat at this level the voltages are oppositely directed

activities are equal; when one of the two processes, intensifying, raises
fluctuates above this level, then the voltage of the corresponding activities becomes
No. 13-14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 87

new. more. significant, and ‘their flow is directed’ in the opposite direction
the river rose like water. above its › average level, ‘falls’ down.
So. these balance, and with it we eat systems, in ‘ordinary
conditions... zi

Now you can judge in advance ©. what happens when the thumping
from outside the activity of pressure in various ‘conjugations and’ disingressions of equipment.
catch the transformation of some particles of water into ice, some particles
ice into water. Changes of the first." sort of, still ‘increasing. pressure, create
a new voltage difference that directs: the flow of activities in the ‘reverse’
new side;. hence these. changes are "unsustainable; selection of devices
are busy. Changes of the second kind, reducing pressure that is already elevated
above the average level, decrease. and the difference in voltage and reverse. ‘by-
There is no current activity. cause; &.because‹they are more stable than the first; selection ‘for
they are more favorable. The result is exactly that; which one corresponds to the law’ Le-
Chatelier: the process is revealed, the nation effect” of the external last
action, as if counteracting it.

In the example with solid and liquid mercury, on the contrary, the ‘transition’ of solid
particles into liquid. increases. pressure; the transition of liquids to solids decreases.
Therefore, under external pressure, processes of the first kind, such as increasing
the voltage difference will be less. are stable, but processes of the ‘second’ kind,
how its reducers are more stable. The overall result of the selection is the opposite
the previous one, again. in agreement with the law! Le Chatelier: And? too, ^ obviously;
must have a place. for. of any system of equilibrium ‘whatever activities’ ‘its
no matter what. the opposite processes in ‘her’ and ‘neutralized’
each other. For example, in our body all the time. processes are taking place: mastering
burning and absorbing heat, approximatelynal ‘equilibrium: relative
Chenvue to this environment; ‘if it changes’ in the direction of heating - more -
processes that absorb heat occur; if I turn it off, it’s harmful, then va
the opposite ones are heat-generating. .

But all this applies specifically to equilibrium systems. -With unbalanced
systems matter. completely different. If there are changes in them:
at the same time. in two. opposite directions, then one of the two groups
they are more stable, and therefore the whole is transformed ‘step by shack’ towards its ‘side’.
What are the results of thinking and externally affecting this kind of
complexes?

An illustration is a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen called
also explosive gas. At ordinary temperature it’ seems quite
balanced system, no external methods can be used to damage--
It is possible to detect a chemical change occurring in it. In fact
it does happen, however; the mixture turns into water vapor; i.e.+e. processes
hydrogen and oxygen compounds predominate over; reverse. But the reaction:
here it goes so slowly that we need it, according to an approximate ‘calculation’; ‘oeno-:
bathroom to monitor her progress. at high temperatures and the formula of measurement
changes in the rate of Van't Hoff reactions, hundreds. billions of years to... she:
ended. This is the theme of false balance, as it is designated; she; not:
chemically balanced, a. Also. in the sense: temperature, because. what
heat is released during the reaction. mixture. must, although elusively, self-
warm up. .

Let it be. attached to it is the era deoniriilyat Zorro Niva house
complex changes to this one. side already. were more stable than the opposite -
then. same. applies and. co. newly joining. Not only that. does not›occur
counteract them, but move. compounds: hydrogen. with oxygen: accelerate
causing additional heating of the mixture - just the opposite of this.
what happens to equilibrium systems. At temperatures close to normal,
This, again, is an insignificant, elusive quantity; but the higher the temperature,
the more’ it’ increases; ‘at eye levello 600°.S. she's getting so big
which accelerates the process to the point of explosion, which in turn produces heating |
38 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: No. 184

in several. thousand" degrees): This explosion, however, is not something new
tectologically,—he. continuation of the process that was going on earlier; change
Nen only. epo temp. (1.0: 189 r G EE1 dia E
This is a “false balance”. These slots mean; next
valid, two facts; 1), the balance’ is continuously disturbed at a certain
On the other side, the complex is in the process of transformation; in.2), we are not
mediocre. Not. we note: this is due to the imperfection of our organs
perception and observation methods: When! we are talking about “true equality”
news*, ‘to si. this. does not mean exact, complete balance, but
only a tendency towards it in two-way fluctuations. If the salt crystal
is in its saturated solution; “this is true balance,” “perfect.”
The same as water and ice at 0’. Between the dissolution of crystal particles
and ‘precipitation. others from solution; between the melting of ice’ and the freezing of water
no. exact equality at any given moment; but if you change it now -
comes first. process, and the deviation from the level turns out to be in one direction, then
at the next moment the dominance will pass to the second one, and the oscillation in the direction
turns in the other direction, etc. d: short circuit V
The difference between systems of equilibrium’in this sense’and unbalanced
nym; and ‘especially: systems! “false equilibrium” is of great importance
not only in knowledge, but also in the practice of life. It is extremely important to recognize
To create one and the other type, in order to correctly anticipate possibilities, I exist:
for this or that. other. systems. And this is especially important “where the law is equal
Yesia before. has not yet been precisely formulated and systematically applied, in
areas of the most complex life, mental and social phenomena. Illustration-
Let's take this as an example, he is Go Nul9. m9P Chu ve oe
If a herbivore. give a light blow to the Greek tortoise, it is ‘kemed-
lazily hides in. box. yours: goalova, paws and tail. This reduces access"
hostile. surface forces, & therefore their immediate
action, which is fully consistent with Le Chatelier’s law. So, by nature
In its psycho-motor reactions, the turtle’s body corresponds to the systems
balance, gravitates. to› stability, conservative. ‘It’s impossible from cherenakhi,
therefore; expect, eg; ‘progressive’ development of activity, active
conquest of the environment, which ‘organisms of a different type are capable of. .
Suppose the tortoise behaved differently - on external violence
would respond with blows from her paws and jaws. According to common usage, this is
n-is real “reaction”; but it would be the greatest mistake to see
This is compliance with the law! equilibrium: it is something exactly the opposite, in
here it is necessary to eliminate verbal confusion from the very beginning. Our own, “anti-
acting": counter movements of the turtle "do not directly reduce
would be wrong, but ‘would increase: that difference in mechanical stresses, from which
the swarm depends directly: the result of external ‘influence; only for further _
consequences; destruction or flight of the enemy, this ‘could lead to real
a new ‘reduction in harmful’ activity; but it could also" when the enemy is strong
she tells the story of the opposite effect. This is the basis for the well-known crude
trap, nH& of a bear, - a log, ‘hung’ so that it interferes with him
get to! hive, and could swing like. MNYaTniK.; The bear pushes him away
one time after another, and receives blows of increasing force, i.e. increase
mechanical difference is preserved and accumulates. In law. Le Chatelier
it's all about the internal processes of the system, about the internal ones. regroupings.
her-activities; directly reducing the result of external influence.
Acts of ‘struggle against the cause or carrier of this influence are by no means
these are; and’ because they › indicate ‘that things are going on between the system

equilibrium:

®) Just with these. temperatures hydrogen, nitrogen and water! steam is formed. already
real balance systemI, in which the reactions of the compound are neutralized in parallel
ongoing reactions of decomposition. At. 30009`N. ‘this is the combination of 83%/, explosive, gas” or

120/, water steam. { 1

5,
No. /PROLETARIAN CULTURE - 539

As mentioned, the ‘human’ body is susceptible to increased accumulation from the outside
responds with increased evaporation of water, during which ‘heat’ is absorbed; this is
naturally “according to the principle of `Le Chatelier” and ‘shows’ that in direct terms
In mic relations ©0in its ‘heredy’ the ‘organism is a sibtemsya ravvo-
vesiya. But ‘often ‘at the same time’ such a reaction emerges’ first, nervously
muscular: a person begins to fan himself ‘veersm,’ open the okvati top
These movements are accompanied by a transition of chemical and mechanical energy
into the thermal one, and ‘therefore, ‘themselves 06 To ourselves, ‘g.-e. ‘taken’ regardless `from’far-
‘best’ results; lead to even greater heating of the brow. From here
It is not clear that in relation to motor ‘neuromuscular’ activities
the body is a complex “not balanced. And ‘we must remember; what's all about
one and the same system can always compete with one of its members
more active to be a system of balance, on the part of others, explicitly or hidden
unbalanced. So, the same ‘explosive ‘gas’ that chemically represents
at low temperatures ‘false’ is in equilibrium, in the ‘mechanical sense’ it can
be considered, ‘as being? In True Balance: on Berio
pressure’ it’ reacts by increasing density,’ and vice versa.”

Let us consider this case: a person is ‘haunted by ‘adverse influences’
‘life of the environment’—grievances, oppression, ‘losses, various blows of fate. 'How will he
react ‘to all this? There are two main types observed here.

In some natures, tendencies towards limiting behavior are found: 'tolerant'
nie; humility, humility; often. “still concentrating” on needs—asceticism,
and even ‘intercourse’ with ‘other people’ is solitary.” What is the meaning of these
reactions? External forces of hostility reduce the vital
activity of the mental system; ‘a ‘she’ having livedreveals its active manifestations,
the area of its contacts with the external environment; this directly reduces
Shaeteya em unfavorable 'environmental influences, as in our example
with a turtle. Very good food ion is also a chip system
balance.

Other natures become combative” and in the environment; vigorously 6o-
fight “against” all hostile forces; “expanding their active ‘manifestations,
personal them! tension: Loss of energy ‘caused by negative v03-
actions ‘from the outside,’ also: increased by its ‘expenses’ on the ›fight = in
the sum of the contacts' e 'external gap, the depth' of penetration into it, in
in general; ‘what ‘can’ be called a ‘vulnerable surface’ is ‘still’ increasing. "This
just right. opposite to ZHA Le-ie and ara: on ‘komilen’
unbalanced” tit. and moss

It is clear that natures of the first kind are incapable of practical things! progress
development of ‘one’s strength,’ to ‘victory’ over” the enemy; qualities of the second ‘kind’ are separate

or to development, ‘progressive victories over external forces, or
degradation through lesions; “often” both “mixed in different ways”
relationships, - for example, ‘the rarest among’ artists. creative: development, connection
nenny p. destructive living of ‘ekiziya; “more” more often ‘one (changes
to others, the imbalance of no’em in the imbalance of ‘regression, when,
for example, @reda” changes in a ‘sharply’ ‘unfavorable direction; but’ it’s possible’
reverse shift. And natures that gravitate towards equality; ‘being “unable
develop your resistance as well. to the extent that it is exhausted, naturally
move on to degradation.

In the Russian language there is a “special ‘elovo’ for the 6boan meaning of this Tiv; nominative
“everyman”: “People’s consciousness, in its elemental collectivism,
working language, often expresses in ‘it’ deep experience; elusive
from individual consciousness, ‘even’ highly ‘developed. In the concept of ‘everyday life’:
tel" is the `` image of bymgiya kololoscheyuvya ("to happen" - multiple 'visa'
from being"); and, moreover, 'about' some 'level' (meaning of preposition 594)
Philistine character is precisely what is lackingYour combat reactions to influence:
environmental influences, patience to squirm, etc. - internal softening. blows.
from outside. exhaustion
40 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. - 9th

But, again, it is necessary. remember that everything is tectological. definitions from-
native, Man, gravitating. to. equilibrium c. alone. areas of their
life. may be positively or negatively unbalanced
in: others: “citizen”, even. "revolutionary" c. political. life, "usual
“vatel” in family relationships, or, for example, a layman. in all touching
veniyah © society, tyrant. inside. your farm etc.. under..

“The prevalence of certain mental types depends on social
conditions - - - from the structure of ‘society, from the direction and pace of its development, in
as a whole, and in individual groups or classes. Thus" and. in, social
Ideologies reflect trends corresponding to these types. And, since
the completion of every ideology, its highest characteristic. serves life
ny ideal, then the tendency of logo or other ooze appears especially clearly in it.
The tendency of the collective towards balance is embodied in. ideas of passivity and
indifference; the purest and most complete of them is the “nirvana” of Buddhism.
stov; absolute balance of the soul, her. complete calm in.nothing, not disturbing
cherished contemplation of ‘eternity. This also includes ideals - dreams; that's how it is
Christian with his idea of justice in the next world, of reward
suffering, humble and submissive, about punishment for the evil and proud, and
and’ reward and punishment are carried out. not through the efforts of the people themselves, but 60-
life, the highest world activity, restoring what was disturbed in the earth-
New life balance, Similar ‚pleasant. dreams are one. from. mental
reactions to hostile, environmental influences, reaction to comfort”, quite
corresponding to Le Chatelier's principle; internal opposition
that: pain that is caused; disruptive. forces from outside, p

The other group is social-practical ideas; active-organizational
new This is: in the highest. degree ideal. laborcollectivism:

The first are characteristic of societies, groups, classes, vitally frozen-
we shim in the existing ones. forms. or already losing. his position, unable
successfully defend it; the second - to the collectives of rastuits, pobdvoNII, elements -
nal and social. resistance, b A

Equilibrium systems, through structural changes, often very noticeable
for direct observation, those who are unbalanced can cross over and back.
These transitions are practically very important; most often, it is possible to ‘catch them’
by changing the system's reactions. In. relationships between people and organizations
correct assessments of tendencies of this and that kind, especially in the economy,
can save from the greatest and irreparable. errors. Such. estimates for
every step and are done by people, on the basis of “worldly wisdom”, that is,
ordinary, philistine tectology... From several observations of how
a person reacts to those. or other pushes from the outside, draw a conclusion. about. him
general warehouse, stagnant, gravitating. to.equilibrium, or. on the contrary,
proactive, impetuous, combative, - etc. ‹this...is consistent. V. long-distance
shih. relations to him. 1). She noted, “folk tectology. And. types
false balance, oh. how. testify. proverbs. kind of quiet
There are devils in the whirlpool." For scientific treatment, "this is vague, inaccurate and
unsustainable experience has not been done, and everyone should. was for it, his fucks him
assimilate and formulate.

Even more important is recognizing both types in relationships. organization
tions - state, party, economic, cultural,
military, in creation. cooperation. between them. and in the notes on. victory
in case of struggle’ There is a disadvantage. "practical wisdom". organizations
or their leaders may have. fatal.significance, for. them.

Here, let's say, an army that is against the enemy. offensive responds
reduction of the front and transition to more. protected. positions, not on-
offensive counter-maneuvers: she has the appearance. system “gravitating towards equal-

) So, during the underground, the organizers were recruiters of revolutionary parties
sharedall human: material on active” and “non-active”, rather than the latter
of course; were immediately thrown out of the calculations.
/№..13-—14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 41

news..But this. may not be its actual 'tendency, but, just
disguise; then her true state can be caught in small
manifestations of its “spirit”, by the nature of its “partial explosions”. "activity".
But, if she... is on s-mom. in fact, incapable. to the initiative ‚i. progressive
deployment. combat, action, then, winning; time. For. regroupings,
accumulation and concentration of forces, it can still turn into
a system of the opposite type, and the enemy who lost this time; pro-^
play everything where there were conditions ‘for. full win.

“Another example: “In a backward country there is a strong progressive movement,
Democratic organizations are taking shape and growing. ‚Then ‘looms
reaction—a series of restrictions, repressions, blows, and generally external insults
(hostile pushes) for these organizations. How do they respond to strokes?
Let’s say, by expanding and intensifying its activities, deepening
slogans, a transition to more radical forms of struggle. This is a characteristic
describes these organizations as systems of the second type, i.e. indicates that
the possibility of their deployment and victory is not excluded.

"But in the ongoing struggle the accumulated strength is exhausted. And now comes
a time when the vital character of these organizations seems to be. is changing. Na'
growing pressure, they begin to react by restricting their own
bots, refusal, from / more acute forms of struggle, with’ narrowing. slogans. These ‹ pro-
processes are internal changes that weaken. partially effect, external
effects, i.e. match the type. "Le. Chalelier, they highlight the tendency towards
equal. Then the issue is resolved, the further “triumph of the forces hostile to them
guaranteed: the very possibility of a successful struggle disappears, leading up to new
structural changes. social environment in its entirety”, 1).

“In this case, let some sensitive, experienced politician ‘catch
essence nstatements, by analogy with what he knows personally from life or
history. But. neither this knowledge, in general, nor life. he is incapable of sensitivity
transfer to others, and. therefore his.conclusions. not convincing to others. And,
Perhaps the most living elements will continue. expenditure of effort in
in the wrong direction, against the ongoing turn of the wheel of history,
Only. scientific organization of experience. admits the present
similar conclusions.

At. to its entire breadth. and importance, `prindip. balance is not
a special, independent tektodogical law, He\is, particular application
opinion, in certain. conditions, the principle we have already clarified—“analysis”
tical amount." .

’ In complexes. there are always equilibria. antagonistic activities,
mutually merging at some level, as, for example, in the system
“water-ice” molecular cohesion and thermal movement of particles in the body
physical and chemical processes that develop and absorb heat, in
to the philistine psyche, opposite, mutually bridling groups
aspirations, etc. If such a complex is exposed, it
means that new activities enter into it from the external environment, correspondingly
existing in one or another of these antagonistic groups. Let these groups
we are a and B, the external influence of B is homogeneous with the second of them. Can
it completely and without loss, without partial disingression, to merge with it,
therefore, make direct, immediate ‘changes to the system in
in its direction to its fullest extent? As we know, this will not happen
maybe a perfect harmonious combination of the old and new asset groups.”
There are no significant differences; disingression on one scale or another is inevitable.
Consequently, the effective sum of this group of activities will not be B -|- B,
& is less by some amount B", i.e. V-- V, —V. To original B
actually added _B, - 8, which expresses the change made in the system

1). “Tektology”, part E; page IE. back of previous illustrations taken
better from there but in a new processing.
42 SPANSRUSSIAN CULTURE: No. 13-la

system It''as we see, 'less active activity, v.-6. matter'vowbit
exactly as if processes had occurred in the system “directed” towards
and “reaction” to this disturbing influence, about “Which ‘and’ the Law speaks
Le-Chatelier. The essence of the phenomenon is simply that the “analytical vumma
always less than ‘arithmetic’, ‘as we’ know from the previous, ‘tiee
“In ‘unbalanced complexes’ this calculation does not apply, because” then
the new impact ‘there’ changes 200 already’ ongoing structural ‘share-formation’
Vania: . 8 1 S: 24 {9 No. 2184. mats
°by the things that are the most distant from each other in the ordinary; can
be united by tectological laws covering all active
and possible transformations of forms. And eh
ZARITCHONI + VA SY um this bezdanov. “H:

a.

2

PS

‘TWO poetry

‘The idea of proletarian culture, enthusiastically accepted by the workers
masses, rallied around herself a fairly strong group of proletarian writers
tel’ and pobtov, who had ‘and confidently ‘said their first new’ xiaovo,
firmly resisting the angry and affectionate onslaught of “talented
Champions of a dying society,” unacceptable ideas of the coming proletarian

Remote control ree ch E r CHTV in kt
“Vourgeois” literature of the twentieth century and somewhat earlier, naturally, has
many common points. contact with the literature of the working class. "Tat
the other developed ‘during the period of the highest flourishing of capitalism,’ and ‘nothing
It’s amazing that bourgeois poets, chanting the solemn ‘and white-nosed*
the new development of capital, together with the “worker poets” stop their
mani ‘and on the ‘city with its ‘contradictory, ‘noisy, ebullient life, and’ on
factory with its machine, with its developing technology, and on social
relationships ‘various social groups, etc. monogamy
Often the works of individual “authors” are imbued with a “deep” vim-
sympathy for the proletariat, for its enthusiastic social “struggle: But ‘if
such works, for example, ““, Dawns“ 9.’ Verhaeren, novels by Marle Louis
Felyita, "Space*"Barnavol, with well-known clarifications and proofs and
mov to be counted among the ‘proletarian’ literature, then it’s necessary to “say,
that the literature of the big city; machinism, poetry of forces and movement, by no means
cannot be entirely attributed to the willows e um me
“”` Proletarian literature; in particular proletarian ‘poetry, birth’ in
the flame of the socialist revolution and reflecting impulses, passions, struggles,
aspirations, anger and love of the working class in its social frontline,
approaches everything with his own special view of the world, the world, the world
current pitchforks of history. She is always full of “inexhaustible and unshakable” ner:
this moment of the proletariat and its final victory. -th yeah, would be ‚6
“Proletarian poetry can always be distinguished from bourgeois poetry, no matter how
their themes and plots are close, related and even identical. Find it out
we and the priests are in this article. “5 in E
“In the Romny of Zola, Bergström, Wales and 'many others' you will find 'blee
presenting pictures of the development of capitalism, and in the stage of initial accumulation
tion, and in the stage of syndication, trusting, and dominance of financial
kings. “And ‘since ‘capital ‘concentrates its’ life and energy in
industrial centers, ‘large cities’ and their banks, joint-stock companies
stocks, exchanges, ports, railways, fierce class
struggle: etc.; insofar as ‘literature’ of ‘above time’ is inevitable
should have reflected and did reflect the entire multifaceted life of the big city:

her"

No. 13—metro station PROLETARIAN\ CULTURE.) 43

''Pbets: sing these: industrial cities} as: cities of gold and labor;
Bonnies love the torod as a source of strength, energy, movement and creativity. Time
magnetic, disheveled, weak-willed bourgeois noets in a frenzy
they shout “Hosanna”; admiring the 'industrial' 'Mantheim, or 'port of Rama.
Burga; naive, they live in the belief that the modern city will fill them with
vomited chest edge, ‘at least’ and ‘mechanical, ‘iron, electrical-
city. They sing of ‘his greatness, brilliance’ and: bbrba: richness and ‘poverty’;
the chosen ‘and the crowd, the palace and’ the ancestors of poverty, the ‘morning tea, when’ are heard
`factory whistles, and the evening hour, when’working people, ‘exhausted by the day
work, hurry home ‘to rest’, the abourgeois give themselves over to the ‘pleasures of life’;

“Of course, the futurists were ahead of everyone.” Caught up in a stormy whirlwind
city life, they, sticking out their tongues, sniff out Venice, get into
burn the ‘gondolas’ and ‘threaten the channels’ pH r. fill up with debris
“plague-ridden palaces.” that

Our domestic poets, too, but not at the beginning, ‹ ‘not’ bathhouse: Vi V. May:
for a
in it all the “channel” of crossed thoughts “uno” did not sweep one into the “waters, creators
and we're bringing engines. mar preeya ROO Uy i i. squares and kingdoms
Ngumov."

Cho'eham' cities are being carried away! minds
On the whisper of the soles and on the slip of the wheels,
Atludy and. poshadi--oto ‘only vrooms;
about onetolia lines #06".

‹

c. Mayakovsky was cruelly mistaken: in 1866 there were no ZBFs '&''enslaved
Samsons, New ‘consciousness of its ‘historical’ power’ and ‘runs; now 'onya
already building a new life, in which the Maykovskys will see nothing and nothing
not whose k} aw: oo

V. Inber ‘visit Tenuya; ovo: there' she's Norov, 'it seems; ^^ Yar
saw but’ what ozzatrimethylya there? Making love, wandering around the city; s
with pleasure. noted “how angry the lackeys” were * “Areopagus in the cafe“not yet
Ana and sleepy, and that Cook’s office is located in the pink palace:

Writers with ‘e’obcial tendencies usually ‘ree an ie nak’
We grow him’ richness’ or “the horror of poverty.”

'In* Rorod: In: Kellermava: › all around” shone oBBi ‘turned’ in the dark
blue; the sultry darkness of the night! °C. nervbeo” vz ‘idea’ chesty’ was” decide ‘to be
whether the windows are earthly or heavenly. 'The buildings of the hotel are visible' Broadway was expected
cutting through the 'Nkyu-Ibru' and the 'deep' gorge? length" #20: kilometers:
He ‘whole’ seemed like a ‘red-hot furnace,’ in its flame
which carried microscopic parts and penla—go: “Individual things =
Bosscrapers. called. wow white ghosts" flooded with "red lightsquares... In large places, multi-storey towers have risen,
The small windows were burning / This was the soda in the big hotels: Fountains
lights and sheaves of multi-colored 'rays rose '@'streets' and were carried away into the non-
demon." Advertising 'aircraft' st two. with fiery eyes” ‘quickly
carried by; working as a propeller. Nalvgo'corps alternately were' obvo =
beautiful letters and words: “Health! Nine-
Street, 14°, Ao daiyoko 'Bottom?'u 'ponvozhya "36-standard! hotel; inheritance" tonal
reporters, agents, brokers ‘and others’ inquisitive; sweating from the asphyxiation
the scorching heat, they didn’t take their eyes off the roof; ‘surrounded by a garland
from here.. However’ and’ that’ above, not ‘to the roof of the monastery; excitement reigned...
Allan took a piece of chalk from his pocket and drew two lines: na’Zhosno ‘stand
behind’ him: Here is America, here is the ?grout ‘He undertakes’ in a 5-year period
build a water tunnel; war ‘nyayutsyay two’ Nontinate, ‘America No.:
Europe; and there will be 'trains'. at 2 o'clock; run the distance, separate more ‘new’
light` from the ‘old... Predetaziteni Capital’ conceived and. Thirty thirteen times
stov earned their brains “in Vozgachvy and am with effort and “distinctness”. 1702
4 _ PROLETARIAN CULTURE” No. 13—m4

Another picture. cities gives. socialist-intellectual D. Londonsv'evoih
essays “Nod by the oppression of imperialism”:. “It seems that there is no
more depressing. and, an ominous corner, .than..the grave-gloomy Eat-End,. with
.all its quarters,.Uzitchepel, Khokoten, Bethnolem-Green, Washirin-

(m homo and others, . Uazn, here is thuekla and. ‘colorless.. Surroundings. amazes
4 with its pitiful helplessness and dirt, Dirt on the streets, ‘dirt. c. houses,

x dirt on the body, its inhabitants. About devices. for washing here too
. little is known about how Fr. some new one. opening. When the wind blows,
and what is he talking about? with, the smell of rotten meat and rot, and even. It's raining a little.
rr, and * we are a real refreshing rain, because its drops. muddy and dirty
r ‘like ktsomehow knocked over a tub of greasy water. The cobblestone shines with heat...
“Of course” you have the right to ask here. a cup of coffee” but’ they’ll serve you
such a mess that... you will not touch her. Visitors. mentioned
The coffee shops are predominantly workers. Tablecloths and napkins are here. No. and
c. at all. The food from the tables is not removed, the floors are not swept, so
they represent themselves at times. .a real mess of... dirt, heat. and
crusty... Wow. stay time. his in one of the California prisons.
ate much better than what he eats. London worker: v. coffee shop."

A poet from the bourgeois world sometimes deeply hates the terrible city;
he doesn't put up with that. millions of people are sentenced to hard labor from
birth to death, and dream about. new. city; city of the 'future, in which,
according to Baudouin, great words: love, work and truth, will be inscribed
not only on the walls, but also in the hearts. a

_ Observing the struggle of two city lives, well-fed and hungry, Marinetti,
leader of the Italian futurists, water ‚from. its manifestos proclaim: “we
let us sing of the huge crowd, driven by the thirst for work, pleasure and rebellion;
multicolor tides and. ebbs of revolutions. capitals, night vibration
arsenals and shipyards, illuminated by the bright light of electric moons.” New
this fight is his. ‘interested. Not. the outcome of the struggle, not the folk mayes, & the most
process, external side, - what. in war, he; far from human. country
Denmark, but... but it inspires him. picture of the battle, guns unichiOZhOvIvu ‘position
and other conditions of human extermination. m,

How much. neither. say bourgeois poets about. city, however. not a single one
from them you will not find instructions from where and how, in what torment. and in what
glory will appear the city of the future: A. their hearts are full of ‘anxiety and death’
horror of those who pass. demand payment in blood, written
accounts." They. hide. in. the basement floors and curse the world, "when the rebellion-.
new waves. rebels, leaving, from. foresee, s. living ‘roar’. substu-,
sing, to them. temples, judgment seats and palacesm, ready. All. cut and sweep
in his unyielding quest for victory.”

In proletarian poetry we will also find the above-mentioned Highs. motives. This
historically inevitable... Exploitation c. capitalist. society. obli-
combines the working strata of urban democracy with the proletariat and often
This is how their feelings and experiences are colored. the “iron heel” of the bourgeois
Asia, but that's not the point. The point is. no one. understood, and most importantly not but-
felt. the city the way the working class poets understood and felt it.
Not only the city. source of inspiration for. fading heart, not only
source. "geometric and mechanical" beauty, he is the path to liberation
enslaved humanity, he is the bridge to new life, and through. this. bridge with
with all its torment and suffering: the proletariat is coming,

“I love you, city, because you are a great bridge to liberation and...
triumph of man.

At the call of your songs. sirens, with a dazzling shine. lights, with, everyone
<toron hurry.k. you millions of people to. give away. yours. body. blood. and
brain to burn in. your great transformative bonfire. I hear knocking
countless consonant hammers—this is a gigantic forge where
new joyful life, these are mighty. symphonies of labor, iron and steel...

\№ 13-14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 45
Thunder trumpets thrown into the sky exude incense to the new
'to the god-man.
I see the blossoming of an unprecedented captivating ‘dawn.
I hear the voices of the future.
I love you, great, all-conquering city."

writes V. Kirillov.

A. Pomorsky, referring to the choir as a “monster with” “scorching eyes”
-zami ‚and ‹to the never-slumbering ‘dragon’, torah. At all with your iron
in a vice, angrily’ throws out the words: t E

"Be silent, tyrant, 'crowned with fools,
Dragon! ©: disfigured brow.

You will be ours: Before the sorrowful slaves
You yourself will fall as a slave!

And Ilya OA loves the rebellious one

‚vi.d.li kavo evoch darkness things
Passionate kisses of the sun

And spring blossoms."

„...... Like the roar of playing waters,
Like powerful thunderclaps,
Stormy days of wrath

It's certainly not a cityd B. Vylarmali LJ. Togormy, V. Bryusova,
V. Maakovek and many others. Proletarian poet. experiences it himself
the charms of a capitalist city, but’ he `‘n6’ paints it sentimentally
and pompous of his suffering among the “mechanical and geometric beauty”
"honeycomb" of the futurists; he knows their historical inevitability, he ascertains them
rue, but he also knows that the city is uniting the proletariat" to fight for
the coming city of socialist ‘society. Proletarian poets sing
not a city of pleasure and suffering, \& ‘a city of struggle, liberation and
“everything that” organizes “this struggle and victory, also inevitable, is found in it,
like night changing to day. Mroletarsky, the ‘poet’ does not scold, does not cry, but angrily
welcomes this city as the last stage of the fight for its future. And he
definitely indicates that the liberator will be the proletariat; leaving empty
dreams of the azure sky; he’s here on’ earth; in this 'forge, will begin to forge
human 'happiness'; smashing! ‘with your mighty hands. slavery and’
the vulgarity of life. Bourgeois poet' scoop: TV. city's capital personal strength
and inspiration; and proletarian! the poet ‘draws from him the fork’ ‘revolutionary,
the will to fight. With. him, ‘how. oopvrat, eprut,. ‘sucking human
blood and brain.

And only in 9. Verhaeren can we find our ‘motives. No wonder he
this is how proletarian poets love it,

In his “City” he gives a comparison with the Che of the octopus city,
in which

“Life is leavened with alcohol,
Bars open onto the sidewalks
Mirrored Tabernacles,
In which intoxication and rioting are crushed.
Blind woman selling light against the wall
- For a penny - a box. . | :
Hunger and fornication embrace' in the distant' ni shi zoshanoe
And a black gust of carnal rage. and neays m AI
Dancing. dance! death in back alleys." gon. IVR

0750
. * * * * . *. . . ` * * * . . } y
46 PROLETARIAN CULTURE No. 93

o “This is a city: octopus” t- otb san omvunanosny
"Flaming octopus"
Big skeleton: on: crossroads:
And all the roads. Rigo
They are leading. to 'infinity'
In the city."

1
Baa

Iv. these. Belgian octopus citiesthis is not admired by the noise about
‘pollerov,. not loud. trains, not car sirens; tram not calling
vaev; in this. city. E. Verhaeren hears the cry of the “Coming One”; tone ‘elshshit,
how is it?

“Tears up the earth and breaks the vaults in these.

Cities of gold and black Rde) fires.

Prowl like a lion: from Chaitazdyai yy
No. 3 +.

Observing social "battles, the poet penetrates into their essence, believes in
victory of labor; he knows what she will come and what she will bring! With. by yourself; He! sees:

th

gp

“All movements and horizons are coming towards us.
Bridges, arcades, bapiniztol oao i
Shocked to the core
Sudden impulses. sets: 1
Blowing up cities; war
The time has come for crashes - and 'overthrows'
And gestures of lightning and golden miracles
At the heights of Fzverovya: oppressed"; o

“Full of enthusiasm, impulse, “singer of human happiness” in, _ failure
zitso ‚mira ZAZDEOVLATO OA, Bravvyal are like that. Chernekia yulovavoloncel

and the crowd" VoZvooiv. your voice," ow
not: will praise with a merciless hand and the honor of Other
Some new one, Mirsyz of the darkness of the spark, oh Nellie daughter
And happiness will grow like flowers melting in the fields 00 0 0
And it will become the essence of life and dreams; No
;. Everyone shouted: WIDOW” But before the TNF! o o lomkhrtova

and x
| N

No dogs are close. Am. E. ry 'wee- they are not -filled and Vaughn
skiy. tet, as a rioting pitchfork to the Obi of the octopus city, exposes
a crowd, violently and rebelliously, tearing towards the closed one; in the “mists of the ideal”,
poets' eyes are clear. they say about the revolutionary proletarian, ornaleltonai >
lytically evocative, who knows exactly what he is: x0ch012:000:..1 { I

Z

“The enemy is broken, defeated and 2 <

"Through the canopy of the foggy and smoky cha tada, Va in

Rays: master the sun strumt, soe 1 oo» maono. B

And the crowds are raptures and hymns. ion

Banners. Lady 7 could swim:

And slogans, a storm of crayfish,
Ia 96. B. enerndroleky

80

Threat

Proletarian sentiments. the poems dedicated to the city reflected
great strength, brightness about beauty - in verse" addressed to the plant, factory
rike, to the machine and labor. Known: limited topic. obliges to pain
neck clarity and gendernote of identifying your thoughts and feelings in | standing before
therefore the image ‚ah.

et 8
No. 18—14 _ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 4

With development. capitalism, inevitably! plays with vee;(big and big
the role of technology, she holds in her hands the fate of industry and individual
nogo enterprise; and quite. understandable. and.legally" "what" the intelligentsia, highlighting
from its midst there are significant cadres of specialists—engineers and technicians—
begins to chant this one. technique - and..its. Uvornoy" 1 "The machine is the source
human happiness.

Dealing with Mallarmé and... Verlaine, Oronans glorifies love
to the machine, Falgore feels the thought of the machine, like a song, floating through
ocean of vastness. Wales at its own. passion for the car comes to a thought
about man—a machine, about a spiritualized mechanism, In Martian there is an amazing
new machines. They lived to see art. clothe intellects in such fur-
nic organism, which is required at the given moment. to carry out the given
no task. Marinetti dreams." oh, the heart-motor; and one of his comrades in
Peru even depicted how he would be born: the future, emochanic type.”

All these non-machinists are carried away by the idea that they will be able to rise
above the earth, to escape from its grip and... to be carried away “to new horizons, to heal
bright dream about. high and distant.

But it is characteristic that bourgeois poets “do not write poetry at all.”
factory and plant. And this is not an accident. A car torn out. factory,
taken ‘in abstraction, especially by airplanes; car, easy to become
under their pen a symbol of movement. to the highest and beautiful, i.e. "speak-
of stupid nonsense and nonsense”, as in M. Gorky’s story “The Mischievous Man”, set-
Officer Gvozdev clarified the words of the editorial: “our factory legislation
has always been a hot topic for the press."

Isn't it social nonsense? these are the cries of the undaunted Marinetti.

“The stormy god of the iron race, the car, intoxicated: space-
lust, a terrible Chinese monster with fiery eyes, thirsty: burning
umbrellas and star loot, that's .ya.raskovyvaI see your heart, beating like a devil -
quick rhythm; and your gigantic, light ones, so that you can rush in a dance across
to the country roads of the world, I give free rein to your metal ones. knife and you, drunk,
you rush towards the liberating infinity. Hurry up, even sooner!
Let the engine increase its speed tenfold. Hooray! I'm not touching
more, with the earth, I. I rose into the air and was flying, smoothly: drunk! pro-
hundred stars sparkling on. boundless bed. heaven", p | "Hol"

The factory where he works. car, factory like. productive. body, not
makes it possible to keep silent about. proletariat, © class. fight, etc. n. Verse
about the plant requires answers to damned and insidious questions. Better about them
y be silent.

The bourgeois poet, singing raspberries in a frenzy, sings primarily
essential, means of movement, rushing,. c) in a drunk car
space" and no longer touching the ground. The structure of life on earth
with her economic aspirations for him it and WU CHAY yellow
“The boundless bed of heaven” is another matter.

“The worker poet, on the contrary, loves the plant before Vero as a force of production:
stva, without development. which. social progress is unthinkable
“dirty land”, watered with evil roses and tears. YOU. class. Work
whose poet writes: ev

“I love pieces, steel blanks, |
Between the rollers turned. c. snake.
„Tuble when over. steam. hammer
‚ Squeezed ‚olal. in sheaves of rays...
I love you. forge, strong and young;
U. mouths of fire. furnaces "ato V 248

And a poet deeply. I'm convinced that. plant, as a higher tier: organizations 'pro-
production, by force. theirs; cars and by will. labor mass, . will overcome: earth=
businesslike, mystical culture. m
48 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 84

„Otokhat eolomenny vvlonii o gotiiyaya mantiievo
`Where life is amazing.l is proud, “ '''"9°`
eiiiotatto To the menacing call of siren singing”
x6 8 We went to the steel cities. _o
goa-ooiVym everyone is thrown into the fire of the forge, “1?!
Scorched by boiling steel...
Wedded by the torch of the factory,”
Its lightning is illuminated...
‚ Sprayed with metal scraps, I
`Ereshchen' in the cast iron font, oops MO
And‘here’s the ‘rest’ etala’ m ©’. ahh
‹Golden straw string:
Like a dream, ‘the humble one is forgotten
Old-necked flesh, Eph
'The burning soul is doused and
‹ 101 A ringing wave of ‘rebellion’.
And nostalgic, like in a factory
“Everyone became a fiery accordion
io`Nourishing bells, ‘red strings,
- o’ Shrozovo. opened titanium.” and
r yago y, I
$
The poet knows that! factory; as a source of thieves of new” life, 9 Zasteya
overcome. I carry ‘bourgeois’ culture, ‘stepping’ through’ its ‘suffering’
and trials and trials

+ ushi ‹ ko

“Let the fog ‘clubitea’ unsteady, in
Nechalv but’ ney’shol8e% without" pitchforks, › 17 pont vom
We see the “fiery ov” with little frequency
hey bad weather disgrace!“.. $ ! a
As you can see; ‘the poet admires the ‘factory and the car,’ not’ projected as’ mania
noah, but by movement and force, not as such, but by the faithful, historical
pre-specified, predetermined means’ to the implementation of one’s social
listical ideal. Thought about the social! oo. not her
machine worker-singer: He ‘knows: . o'\eo

a
owl a ‚will be mai AE a me

(M. II. t m s

‘The same idea was expressed by another worker, V. Kirillov. This is meant
love to come alive! izya; without’ opaseviy coolant in. `osiouse quotes,
I will conduct: it:

1 o overheard these guys. baths "UN WEBW" us
In the echoing whirlwind of fire-faced immense cities, ^^" centuries
I overheard these pveni' golden days to come
In the noise of factories, in the cry of steel, in the angry rustle of belts...
The harder the ringing hammer will hit, crush, forge,
The brighter it will be to shine in the gloomy world,—

The faster the drives and posters move,
The more captivating and brighter your “days” will light up.

“Before, the people-loving intelligentsia protested against the 'mark-
systemic theories about. boiled down? in the ‘factory’ boiler’ and ‘dispersed the plant; how
source of exploitation, then the singers of the proletarian “culture ‘since’ the times” October-
-No.-18`-14. PROLETARIAN JUMP. 49

of this ‘resolution’ they look at ‘him’ and her fox her own. ‘new
mood, ‘enthusiastically’ saying: 19% d”! and

“Today I felt the ‘lin’, I just found out ‘this day,’”
Here,in the factory, every day noisy prapdin - Kornevaya.
Every day, at the appointed hour; couple penem,` invitation;
Guests in festive attire, ringing and roaring, dancing, singing,
Ringing and roaring, sonorous speaking with ‘sounds’ without words...
The dance is harmonious and rhythmic of drunkenly joyful pulleys...
To be in a factory every day, to be in a factory is a pleasure...
Understand the iron language, listen to the secrets of revelation...

in Uo machines otankov learn “violent t t t
About this and that: I

Since it’s a pleasure to be in the factory, then kill A ‘in your own way’ 6
laziness in relation to ‘we, ‘v! how a new one develops and is formed
social force and elements of the ‘life to come’. For him, a car is a sure thing
comrade, not a gift from God so that and. everything is not as the bourgeois assures -
ny Bodozn. ‚with um

We merged with our iron ones, our iron ones, we intertwined with them,
we created together. a new soul of movement, where the worker and the machine are inseparable
archery." That's why the "daring and machinic oval has its decisive
rhythm:—=we: with you, washed by ‘you’. *

And this strong union of the proletarian [about the plant therefore concluded
It’s clear that the plant “rushes from the horizon” to the horizon and everything that is on
the paths are melancholy fields, quiet villages; silent 'cities, everything stinks, everything
wears and injects, drinks. sleeping’ plains with a cannonade of hammer and motor,
makes the eternally silent mountains echo, 'fills the lakes with tears'
light and, all full of his steely, invincible pride, threatens to sti-
for earthly... heavenly things, it is difficult. understand where the car is, where

man."
Ro Ve (.A. Gastev).

`This, as you see, is not a “melody of the fores”: ‘von Kohl, with his bored
people with a realistic view of life with nonsense about the holy spirit
progress, God, who is full of love for all living things.

This is not Vauduin’s “Ode to an Aviator” with dreams of a man already deceased
who conquered the universe and even death... but who has not yet conquered the rulers
these aviators; sowing death from the azure heights and irrigating us
zami: fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters of the killed and wounded.

It may be objected that when we compare the two poetry of machinism, we are more
stoppingpoured their attention" not! 'on 'machines' like 'bourgeois poets and
bourgeois critics, and at the factory}; of course, not about the lack of material
for equality, but from certain theoretical considerations.

Poet A. Gastev, or rather “thinker”; one of the interesting ones
articles on the “New Industry” summarizes his thoughts on this issue
in the following provisions, which we’ prefer to convey in words
the author himself” “we see how the machine” gradually takes over from man
all his manual work, and how it fits into your hidden work
intelligence. The armchair thinker type is becoming a thing of the past; techvi-
to think now, 'this' means 'to work', and to work in the 'workshop',
equipped with machines. We can now imagine how a car
gradually becomes, powerfully, a lever of productive development. Under
We now represent it in the name of the Machine. not just a separate car:=- ^
weapon, . But. and a car workshop and, finally, the plant itself grows into a giant
car. Machinism will gradually permeate not only purely productive
the leading life of mankind, but ‘he will “link” one’ ‘irediriya

th

Proletarian culture. No. 13-14. 4
50 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: No. 18

with another, he will. soak in everything. phase, everyday, life, about’ he:o will be,
to create such mighty buildings, or B boldly. let's call it a machine;
city" 1).

And this is not a city-beast, UT, nie ina, RoV@lyte zvovoromo

`dwee that. there used to be a timid fairy tale
It became a wondrous sun, illuminating the world! and logs in what
Labor of fields and factories, brotherhood and freedom" 4. No.:
_Here. emblem, nai, call the days tablet“: that leno”
a :: , Zaraloi. zhai
u a woofer | n
And he was right... F. Nietzsche, Korda said: you must be notative
from the land of your fathers. I will take away your children, love." o 48
It is quite clear that the fusion of the proletarian with the machine and his consciousness,

that “we grow ‘from’ iron,” “spiritualizes every part of the plant, every
piece of metal

and ; r Uz ubt epoyav & { RI HF

E ’ Metal, like. silver ice sparklesalonto op ateonn
Z Polia is in awe! 'Tolia-‘doesn’t recognize tui5s and dpl vonavanio:
her What. Here. in this brilliance. foggy! Voyoy Chakhon in the room:

GY we hear sighs, silent reproaches, and with a willow we
her I. sweat. "It will fall like rain" it Io m1
`vvaen | Al "Samobiini")

In 820 ^zennE: itsotsh in .banRch

Yes. there were: in the city there were Bvyakirs and industrialists; ‚ but’poettne

EE. y |:
EN 8

only. eV, idechioh m ze tote+1
| herVN glands": priest tenderness; ts ze Ea ve
Not ao6 „o Aggressive. snowiness, (oz onkhi he ondtogeaoot—itfi
"V. polished. love shines, 81 oz and. chtnoon
Zabatnayan adoSuvumon. oron voatankhlotsey t9viayat088
‚ooyavk Uvdapo@Вьно ‘Nonatsto Vynion abi ‚m vt9ii
“In a rusty fracture there is blood... ‚mmvyoE mankh
"There is strength in iron" - left
ry. b raised giants
other e Rusty woks eaten Jan 14 a

vii motino 20 vi yo Zheleznoyu ratyug gvdvgaey otolovnnneonovo o, May
ori oe eroyaomonabravya foot ymaotose: here you go ‚ dorechefi

In about the same work! ; BEFORE. en n 056

u mo 9; chin epeza with meoshaia
$99$x

> Zavodokaya, pipe. Previously, she: vastilala 2 needles › sky and. ‘to ours: caustic
smoke and Voyaduzh is not ‹now9to: dn vr ‘poet. dedicates

lines: vysanipy ryzvon ochd tsechniavo am oti/atshchezanoy tchaom m8 N
3 vfzha Truboi zavodekoy iekra sbednikhini `eoya5 nivaninei:
oh the hearts of the workers and peasants. dn "pyapinua maek"
‚/Fruba, kanofakodisnolinatso year star in ovvnonayao
505 z saetny Vi va ovrmi he eats n ‘chetovT In the left
`Fruby fazhel,, two. ev faith, “calls: and she is Ovian <
"Giant's ditch*.. No, it's for nothing that the same thing was said - saw © ‹

I'll love the pipes. factory strings, id
Horn, ‘waking up the copper with steam.’ Raccoon University

t RE ‘zosqualates’ madnina; ‘But the most physical’ ko yes’ er not
`onlygon; ‘but’ and ‘the very ‘call’ to’ him, Often’ brings ‘scourges’ on him
mood and challenge. lamentable lines." Sometimes Bora echoes him:

M+

4) News No. 2. Yayaryr 1918: "Petrograd, og ansyzh obenyaeztodoya
No. 18 4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: 54:

they're lying
CT "omtao Pro"snowing, life in, hiding. houses,
o 2 thief Y stroletaria": with a curse, on the lips of lo o.
They will allow it. suck the life juice out of the machines.”

5VVT RCD SV. _Alekbandrovoky) -

`For the sweat of work, ‘ours. days, ‘singer. proletarian. culture, beep - .
no. only. a “piercing” call for convict labor; this is a
prayer“, collective work. about

m

“There are no conscripts, full of power,” 5
| more incense, more sonorous = °"
More inspired and beautiful, _ I am them!
And more victoriously
^ Early morning prayer in one, three and three
“Calling darkness into battle” mi ke ov

Choir ZU dkov language whitened, VE
Tim. unity, anthem of labor,
_ Awakening the captive’s thoughts, “70 m
"Hearts to Cherl" Oba bd en otonagi 1

In a word, in the factory among. machines, at the forge, "worker: collective" create
his ‘new socialist’ life, and ‘creates’ it ‘not’ in dreams, but in’ the stars -
above, and here, on our ‘land, ‘stained and’ polluted, from
The bourgeois poets are fleeing. They are not capable of fighting, they have no knowledge

to create ‘on earth’ NO order, “joyful, ‘bright, etc.
AI A worker... UR a moat
uv LA Vo rat moyatoodeya 0 <

Hands more than once. still ‚throwing away‚ show-off

A: I 'on her de do o A
and all with AVA aa all: 2. labor. en "New. 'I'll give you the tablets,'"
answers niova} second veyagrazgadkaltooh hro5> 4 oto, todie dachuateto
{ ZB. Um wine A - .

RN: “in condition.” ‘tsa. service capital, | ‘gives. to him. 'All. our own
mental: and physical strength for the development and improvement of technology.
proizvotvat i. organizational and administrative apparatus. In this creation:
che.. process ‚she. ‚produces, through. materialistic philosophy,
with its individual provisions, as it were, co-creating. with the philosophy of revolution
tion proletarizl; .. V. This creative process is bourgeois. intelligent
gencia: produces si: eagles look at the steering wheel like. to the source. general
wall progress, and, 1x: vla

‚Modern, production. with, his, technology. ‘carries, . colossal ‘victories’
human: above the elements of nature; .in this one. victory bourgeois, intelligentsia
one participatesexternally, as a scientific, positive-evolutionary force; topics Not.
Less ultimately, it is inextricably linked with production and natural.
essentially captures the value and inevitability of labor without participating in the execution
monotonous and boring mechanical labor, & living, by. advantage in `region
the spirit of creative work with its delights and... joys. The intelligentsia sang,
enjoys this work, enjoys its content, it. achievements because
the masters of life do not corrupt it with their own. handouts c. in the form of a salary,
hail and honors.

B. Kellerman in his novel; “Tunnel”, a bright hymn of machine and labor,
in a speech to workers after a terrible disaster. in, mouthed

4*

AANIOYV: and

52 PROLETARIAN CULTURE No. 18-14

engineer Allan, 'manager' of all work 'and' 'creator of the tunnel project
declares: “Labor is a battle, and in every battle” there are killed... Labor is not
is only a means’ to satisfy the belly: aw ‘ideal, this is religion
of our time."

This sounds so god. | in preletarian style, eloquent and eloquent
engineer, who also dreams of uniting the “two cultures” of capitalist
society;; dreams, in his own way, of course, to even make the people happy considering those

This worker-first person doesn’t believe it. The words “A: “Rabteva” he tr
booms: “Our music plays loudly,” i.e. purely proletarian: “enough” 6 ‘us
songs of piety" sung by bourgeois poets and moralists.
the letarian knows in a capitalist society, exclusively subordinate
hard “physical” labor, devoid of creative ones. joys, but connected
with exhaustion, half-starvation and premature death. And
naturally. he wants a concrete, tangible part from the work; allan centuries
dreams of “making the people happy.” he is dissatisfied. These are fruitless dreams.

“We want everyone on earth to be fed,

So that no groans or cries of “Oh, bread” can be heard...
We will fill it to the top with wonderful honey. honeycomb,

We will find a different “dazzling path” for our planet,

B declares without hesitation; Kirillov.

If you are alone, part of the intellectThe ignition, together with Adana, speaks about ore, how
o. happiness, source. creativity and pleasure, then. ‘the other part is by mouth
Elena. from. Wales's novel "When the Sleeper Awake" tragically answers
Grezm: “Billions of people, oh OA on hopeless ‘work.’ from the ‘cradle.
to the grave. Is this fair? Wherever. look at the city's labor,
the tragedy of a purposeless and joyless life.” Here, as the reader sees, there is no
I remember the joyful work - he. stands ‘Redem © arenas, with aimless tragedy
and a joyless life.

The poet-worker, collector of elements of proletarian culture, has such
duality, how. the intelligentsia, no, he looks at things more simply, realistically
more stylish. He knows what work is, what its happiness and burden are, and what
with the help of this ›reorganize! in the desired direction.

The proletariat knows that in its achievements it must bring a lot
great sacrifices. But this does not confuse him and does not fill his soul with pessimism and
fear of victims. He is proud, calm, strong and serious.

“Oh, he dissuades: We were once given a hammer instead of a life and forced
work. We were tortured, And we, once slaves, now encroached on the world: We
no! We will go to these ‘miserable heights,’ which call it heaven. Sky >— created!
no idle, recumbent, lazy and timid people. Rinemeya ‘down! Together?e
fire, and metal, and gas: and steam... We'll bury ourselves in the ''rubes,'' we'll cut them. them
with a thousand" steel 'lines, we will 'illuminate' and 'expose' the 'underground abysses' of
We will fill them with scattered light and the roar of metal. For many years we'll get away from fuck;.
from the sun, from the twinkling of stars, let us merge with the earth: it is in, on @ and in it We
we will enter ‘the land’ in thousands, we will enter there in millions, we will enter by mokey
people But we won’t get out of there, we won’t get out again ’never again.:.’ We! let's have a chat; 'we'
Let's bury ourselves in the insatiable run and labor blow. With the earth.
in yy pen as it is said even, #0’ land” r rye I

(Ah Raetev):'

No. of the bathhouse, labor and bonds do not cause death
mystical moods, ‘reflections’ about ry 0 Not yy ry
about the ‘eternity of the spirit’ and similaroh. > in

“The Earth” will be transformed, and for this he is ready to go to war. New 9295
“On dark graves, from the ‘ashes’ of the past,
From the blood and 'climbed' of weary hearts,
No. 18-4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 58

We. proud, we build, we, the proud, Oita ANA
“We are building ZALonyai aododi, o oli,

5. } Г ›
y } , Nagai 1-5324

nichet. A. Nda.
: But in its pride the proletariat bbznaby colossal y delivered
pre"! Vim ‘history of the task; he knows ‘what to one person; 'no matter' he's
brilliant, ‘don’t allow it, and he says’ about. collective work; In?history-
of the inevitability of its proletariat ‘is convinced of the very process of production
stva. With the development of machine production technology and the unification of a number of
machines into one production. body, physical functions decrease
worker; his experience becomes painfully homogeneous and similar; but this homogeneity
The diversity of experience and labor in the production process requires collective
efforts, the Individual is helpless outside the collective. Opposing anarchy
production and establishing a connection with the cooperation of the proletariat. all over the world,
the working class creates a comradely association of labor, from where
hymns of collective labor of enthusiasm and victorious power:

“Under” the singing of sharp ones. drills (and locomotive whistle

We will complete our hard work according to

Until the time when, to the sound of other ‘motives’

We will go along a ‘new path’ to a ‘new one’, and they:

(I. Ionov) torus.

'sbvorit 'full: beliefs worker zivat: Noi this collective: labor bu-
the child is stubborn, and, therefore, heavy; and' still he' will be) joyful: 'he
will be free, he will unite everyone into a single team in order to overcome
Every difficulty means death. not ‘country. “And this persistent, hard work
there will be. without Allan's bayonets, machine guns,: black and breakers, although
for the happiness of the people. m

In its agitation before the excited ‘natiotrophy in the tunnels, the work
chimi engineer Allan proudly, &‘challenging,; ‘throws to them: “I’m also a worker,
the same as you! I hate the fish and they will leave. Let them stay
only courageous people!“ [1.9

The workers do not believe the proactive engineer; they know that Allan
lies that he is not a worker; sense; ‘ka k.onig:sAllan representative of the creative
technical, organizational labor, ‘Igovi’ representatives: physical labor,
executive, tedious and boring; -They are just laborers.

Allan lies that they are cowards. Allan plays on their egos to
call into them. inspiration to work, fulfilling his plans adopted there,
in New York, on one of the roofs. skyscraper, financial kings. Allan
knows that without workers he will not succeed. not one yard of the tunnel, but they know
these are the proletarians.

Proletarians are not cowards, their spirit is tempered by suffering and terrible struggle,
but they want another kind of work, in the process of which they could enthusiastically
repeat:

“We are all, ‘in all of us, we are’ flame and ‘light. runes: we are 9
"Themselves 6066 ri and the Judge, and 'ZaNoZ' 09 VEL g UBNO
(V. Variyutsya

They want collective work; in new! everyone would feel it. no
not only an executor of someone else's will, but a tnor. great cause;  execute-
lem-organizer of the will of his pro-hetoric collective. I. not’ bourgeois
intelligentsia like Allan talking about cowardice is verified when: all
impulse and aspiration. 910! he is himself. ‘says:

` „We will strengthen the ‘unyielding
'Collective. labor
We will build a temple to Apollo.
We will erect IIA
‚ Sado ‹fiev).
`54 'PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 13-14

The proletarian masses know that until now they ‘were,’ to put it simply,
with you F. Nietzsche: “firstly, like the ‘raunchy noniys’ of great people” on
bad paper, made by bad clichés—secondly, as’ obstacles for
great ones; thirdly, as tools of the great ones, and for the rest, damn them
statistics." Now they don't want to be a simple subject, statistics, since
they.created their own. great. historical. mission. ‘Now sleep, . realizing his
collective. force, proudly and with right, declare; “We are countless, formidable
legions of labor" (V. Kirillov), eM. “We will take everything, we will understand everything” (M. Gera-
sims); “We have encroached” “We are together”, (A. Tastev). And this is the “We” of the collectivelabor eliminates the bourgeois. t Eozoroi is usually placed in the world-
creation. |

opportunities, opportunities to conquer again, the forces of ‘nature, and sweat -
says. about labor power not in connection with the growth of objective capabilities, but

insofar as the acquisitions conquered by humanity have become weapons

goal of personal aggrandizement. I. if, y, proletariat’ we . we observe the action

personal pathos of creative collective efforts, of a bourgeois poet, this is pathos

someone else's appropriation. In the best case, bourgeois poetry: provides “examples of

psyche, always with predominance. appropriative: element, with what,

Of course, the proletarian writer does not put up with this.

The collectivity of labor carries the collectivity of consciousness, etc. struggle; A. everything
is: ‘together! give "to the proletariat, we eat our faith, we have
whose victory: “but”

We: omnipotent) we. we can
o Raarumenya, doetizhenya t Nonna nanke:
And we will strengthen and multiply. ANOS VYA Yantaveo nai)
‚ Chlugom-mysai collective o. |
New! let’s raise, new, “raise”, 5. ar
'We'll be filled with 'wonderful delight' - onl: Nan!
The sun is better than heaven
: SI. "Sadofiev). | en Eros
az 7 “We will take everything, we will take everything.
and _ brontinvm depth to one“... 10“ ZNOtavNNE19. 090396}
. (m: eimova u ‚otonadeutevio ne

And from this consciousness the identity of the proletarian lights up brightly.

„Like golden ’ blooming ` mabm r aa
Pusha ‘even drunk’... RO V 8
How sweet it is to drink in blooming May
Life-giving thunderstorm!“ - E yy
(M. Terasimov)` ar

Considering labor, not how. simple, central, source
nik and the power of creativity of socialist life, the power of ‘organizing the struggle-
the working collective, the ‘worker’ is not afraid of labor competitors in their struggle
for existence; in everyone. in the first place he sees the dawn: Reg: comrade in
the unfolding struggle between two worlds. t m

A: Robiti ‘gave the priest a poem for this one. topic. ‚Here. weeping

from: him: ; CH from = ti E ZIZUTNY
“You came from, peacefully growing up, * u and nala
`Withered rivers and fields... ; in
Hey, comrade, don’t be timid! ar”,
Here the boundless ‘merged, oh
The impossible ‘happened, °:
At its dawn'days, -

'e be timid!..
№-13—14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: 55

As if. stone spike, °
me Stand by the crazy belts...
“719 comrade, don’t be shy!” regarding
Let the steel one do it’ $806 rya me
To the forehead: the link was still swinging, from O I
od: 97 ig. The raft closed ‘tighter’” 2” B
VI E 8 Don't be timid"

“With these words And, the worker meets a ‘new comrade, uncreative
telial 'peasant: 'How much deep' social meaning is in the 'words:
“Another link has been woven into the Goal, the army has closed more tightly.” } a

And ‘we must state with full consciousness and pride’ that ‘only
a prolegarian poet could rise to such a high understanding of labor, ‘his
collectivity and that comradely bond that ‘knits everyone together into one’

Powerful organism. 41
: Engineer Allan, Also a “worker”, as he calls himself, cannot’ feel
to act, ‘pb-proletarian. On the web like this he sees unwanted competition
rents—here he forgets. and the happiness of nations, -& In actual ‘working
wants to see Only strength, submissive. his will and his plans ‚“what `B. Kel-
Lerman did not hide 1 in his novel.

sc ©

t

Bypassing several specific issues arising from our stated
topics that could have given greater brightness to our life, but did not
essentially new 'considerations, we' intend to focus attention
the reader to clarify views on the position and role of the piezel in society.

The bourgeois poet stands above the society he represents;
he is a guiding star for him, he is called to “burn the hearts of God”
literal ‘gyavgol’. The poet is the leader of ‘society,’ or of a certain part of it, and
society, ‘the rabble,’ as A wrote”: Pushkin, does not understand the poet and often does not
only he is able to rise to the height of his ‘spirit, Her) bozdavt’ such. word-
The vision of life is that the poet is dying, dying ‘mentally, physically; so ‘it happened with Py’
Kin, Lermontov, Gogol ‘and many, many others. Russian’general
by the criminal hand of the high society. the bastard Dantes killed ‘Pushkin, one
of the greatest 'people. It killed, and didn’t even flinch from this abomination.
And the discord of the poet is aboutl at times. It happens. so” Tlubok, “that you are a poet-
needs to move away from this society into his own individual world, to isolate himself
in yourself. Despising ‘society; ioet’begins to soar in the realm of “pure art”
ties, creating their own artistic values, devoid of public knowledge
teachings and downgrading the role of the ‘noet’ to the ‘singer of personal, experiences to a simple
seeker of perfect ‘forms. A severe verdict on this was given by V. Belin
skiy in the 6806th article: “Poems of Anpoyon Maykov”; in it he is sharp
declared: “the time of rhyming trinkets has passed” `irrevocably: sensations
and feelings are placed in neither ‘what’: ‘in’ the place of both ‘and the other’ are required
RUZOVIVEN I. ideas, And in artistic form’ with rhymes,
in poetry there is now little of one thing. Talaluga:
what is also needed is development in the “spirit of the times: Ch 6et ‘no longer “brains” zheitV” B’ dream-
‘physical’ world: he is ‘already a citizen of the kingdom: his contemporary reality:
everything that has passed must ‘live in him. Society” wants to see. in Him" "no longer
an amuse-bouche, but a representative of his spiritual life; oracle giving | from-
answers to your most tricky questions; ‘doctor, In ‘oneself, before’ others, open-
sharing common pains and sorrows, and poetic reproduction of the healing
them." In another article, “Speech” about criticism, “in a calmer tone, but that’s why
'more' confident 'and convincing, in: "Belineky, continuing 'his' thought,
writes: “already ‘and ‘nowadays’ there is a noticeable ‘new requirement’ ‘from the ‘art-demand
reasonable’ content that would correspond to historical’hu. ‘time-
me." In our transitional ‘time’, many of the ‘proletarian poets, in their

56 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 189—m

desire to flaunt a uniform and beat up bourgeois poets with it, the uniform is placed
above content, so we don’t want to deny both of you the pleasure of
to continue the quotation from the remarkable lines of the great critic: others, “sitting in
the dismantled mansion of his fantastic. castle" and looking through it
colored glass, singing, se5e, like birds... My God! man 'done
bird! What a ‘truly’ Ovidiantransformation, .. What of this should
was it possible to get out? - The death of the talents that ‘at. another direction, left
if there were bright traces of their existence in society, they could develop
to grow, to go forward, to mature in strength, This is where this multiplication comes from
microscopic geniuses, little great people who discover
a lot of talent and strength, but they will make noise, they will make noise, and they will become silent when they die
in small cases even before one’s death, often. in the prime of his years, in the present
time of strength and activity."

It occupies a different position in relation to its class. ‘proletarian-
poet, - he cannot live and create outside his class, outside of it he
dead and unable to “burn hearts with the divine verb.” worker
Klsse and the proletarian poet have. one heart, one thoughts, one joy. I
sorrows, they are united and inseparable; the first in the second, but also the second in the first
vom. Proletarian. poet, stands out only from his class by the fact that he
sooner and better than others knows how to collect organi-
call on the feelings and moods of your class. This was beautifully expressed by I. Sa-
Dofiev:

she's yours. Brother. and husband, your warrior and singer,
Your sensitive hearing and gaze, and feelings and aspirations...
You are in the heart. I have millions of hearts...

I measure them with a continuous beat - eternity

AND ZAV: movement of other eras,” zROMIYAo

I. this ‘organic, unity. ‘poata with class ‘saves him from being swayed’
entry into the sphere of personal little “feelings and experiences”, from
passion for form to the detriment of one’s own. social, , content, If, this
happens, it means that the poet breaks with the ideological. connection ‹c0. its .class-
catfish, although, lives inside it. It happens to him, as V. Belinsky pointed out
“Ovidian transformation”, or, as, with. with all his impetuous passion
hot temperament wrote D. Pisarev: poet / becomes “insignificant
a parasite that amuses. other insignificant parasites, small Vonuormi
fruitless “buffoonery”.

If a bourgeois poet is strong in his own. individualism, then proletarian
poet in expression, collectionness. yours. thoughts, ior leads. to consciousness
world connection, towards dissolution. in a new society.

About. they wrote about this absorption of individualism by society. And. bourgeois
poets ---U. Whitmon, J. Romain and many others, No. under confluence.with
The poets mentioned en masse mean something completely different, that “prodetariat” - Alone
of them preach their fusion with the masses (crowd, city, due to
sing about “a deep consciousness of one’s social responsibilities.” suffering. on-
‘the kind that makes them its delegates; others, lost in Buria-
the rising waves of capitalist life, groan and die. alone, lost
giving in anguish. They seek shelter and cling to the masses to fill them with life.
masses your empty and extinct heart. It should be noted that all these
bourgeois poets always blend in with the crowd, but none of them deeply and
did not seriously mention the merger with the proletariat as, the creator, the coming
life, Singers of fusion, and Beauduev and Romain, addressing “Paris”,
they say: "Gee, there is... I, "Just like you are. We make up one soul and one
dream." The poet obviously forgot that this Paris is waging its own struggle with its
the outskirts that on the streets of this big city are spilling, ‘working
blood. The proletarian poet did not merge with this stony one. cruel city
‚v. he hopes and is convinced that the city will be conquered. man I

_
No. 18-14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 557

sir, everyday, our..Pre-mournful) slaves: about entizooe
utv himself fell to NONNNtAM a slave. yy sound rav

vosnyavtsdet, rn eo valamoyoi. ‘inasieyaea ‹ he zoyaCha
This is far from the same fusion, oh. which `fautasizes p: ‘sentimental-
says Bedouin and others like him. And. opavisni yrtedyae(
Vourgeois poet, merging ©. losing en masse: ‘her individual-
ness, hopes to come out of this, merged, digested in a boiling cauldron
zizni, with tenfold. by force, the proletarian poet is the opposite. you yourself carry.in
"Korod, strength, .strength, class" He. writes" And UFO linomeni d 20084

C b

“I am the element, I am death, I am hurricane,
I see.and.razruzneyuziots sweat in Chechnya mI'll calm you down. the pain of cruel wounds of taleli hay:

m ‚ I ignite the timid soul imicho:
“I will enter their dwellings, I will take their cities,
Their thoughts. I will take possession of their en.
I will create fire. I'm from Crystalwold,
I will warm their dead hearts with flame.
Their temples are located in the village. forgotten gods, wholesale
‘Lamps © extinguished fire
I will illuminate you with imperishable dreams,
And I will light a new cult before a new altar."

(A P Omorskiy).

And the time when the proletarian poet, _ 6 torode, will take possession of him
thoughts and feelings. and will ignite a new cult, bourgeois poets’ modestly
they put up with it if they succeed. galvanized their dying heart.

The proletarian poet feels her strength and is proud of her, even. not getting stronger
It's still final. “Ol knows that the n.son of the mighty: the creative class of the Lipri-
called history, to the great. roles. .marova, transformer: Inspired
with his collectivism, he is not looking for happiness or happiness, o) t
reaps. its inseparability. from "ovogo-class-: o) but ozvyu Chen < #2 At

and Poet: the bourgeoisie merging with the “motley > crowd, merges: “into the itching
him environment, breaking with the one from which he came; the biggest, un hnaho-
dit in.tolie his own. social group, just like a small piece of people
whom. seas. I. Bring your own people. aspirations, he certainly does not; maybe merge
"With this mass; Good wishes, as they say, are lined with hell, but"
It's time for niynotololyami a. reality. carries something else. oivosh lo
but about the Bourgeois poet, merged, “prince in the capital, . they, irvlyayin her
Laws, and who gave her her individuality. and. Vbyaznay
oanno. The proletarian `poet is the son of his own. ‚collective, him. "Orsan, ‘oko.  Deseparable
part, And to him. No, you have to rack your brains. over the damned. questions, .from-`
“far individuality or not, accept the laws of the collective” nl. cet; in
in this 'collective he is a legislator and a leader: he has no divisions
I. etam. he is strong. og. b nooyatooaaa 3

Troletarskie; ‚poets, `proletarian 1 not by. origin, . and ‘in my own way
Wirth contents, complete. consciousness withor, they write to themselves: >.

b you “We are the first. joyful breath, Kaowraone K VA
E ai. then We are the first. greenery flourishing... posed by vla goyazachZootov
eo Not yet.to us, who did not.know us from TRE
field in the attack of the five-Verishchnoy-proud, who have
high nochotos and byYadeH mV rb OO VI vile OieTAVA
ISI ZRna will sparkle with sun and viola. one ven then fannanvita

poshsy otiskoe "vobazaumova Vakhel ‚zotny Anything iovo"
oo iattanak. in “Workers, songs kolyi mote and mMUnoYao evo ZHA
:58 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 18-4

I. this is consciousness. saves the worker from being swallowed up by a ton of bourgeois-
great artists. words, and therefore; ‘and’ from the ‘break’ with his class.

This consciousness gives him the strength to develop his individuality to the fullest.
brightness and richness within the framework of class thought and hesychoyogy, and in the future
- m universal: sya, choto ‚at Vo. vg vn 0 G From

The proletarian will be a singer of iron and steel, like 'KA. “Gaetev,” flame-
a great singer of collective labor and social battles, like I. Sadofiev and
VoKirillov;—or the ‘tender pirical’ ‘poet of individual ‘moments of the worker’
movements like A.’ Originalist, will “he unfold” history for us
labor movement, like P. Bessalko; - he’ always’ ‘fucks’ ‘true’ to his
class.

And everything suggests that in the near future} "when the proletariat
peaceful conditions will begin. organize” and’ arrange’ your new life, with
a new way of life, with new joys and sorrows; ‘proletarian literature
will be able to sever the last threads connecting us with bourgeois literature.
Then proletarian writers will be able to provide not only new, vibrant content,
but... and beautiful forms, which they will clothe with their images and symbols.
The bright light of artistic creativity will illuminate the renewed earth, and in its
in the rays of the working class, will create the “majestic” culture of the future.

Valeryan Polyansny.

Simplicity or sophistication?

Artistic: creativity ‘freely: Prescribe; ‘to impose on him
simplicity’ of form ‘or to demand’ ‘refinement’ would be absurd: But ‘e6li’ we
we know from"which one. life content the artist ‘comes from, for what ma-
gerial he’s looking for forms; then, relying ‘on’ scientific theory; 'quite 'possible
determine in advance which of the two tendencies is natural in a given
-in case; A; hence; and ‘most appropriate to the task; ‘and from here semi-
chat. conclusions about the likelihood of success and failure of the work going on in that
‘other direction. In Cancer’s way, scientific criticism’ can ease the distortions
‘niya’ of the artist. (80 GoiiYaa“ no’ LOCHot | E`vvuy ots Vode m

Iroltarskaya: zzoesia is just emerging; in’ her”’development ‘she’ is nvis-

carefully’ must develop ‘new, noah’ own forms; they have not yet defined
shared} ‘one is the subject of searches. But it’s already ‘known, at least in ‘its own
‘general characteristics; ev' main 'content. It's the whole life of a worker
‘class: its’worldview, worldview, practical attitude towards the world,
aspirations, ideals. This is exactly what the 370’ new artist should press,
‘organically embody’ in images, giving from ‘the fabric a new living connection
for `your class team, a harness capable of further “growing and working”
Ryatyos' to 'universal humanity. This is ‘continence;) for “votorero, robu a”
‚forms. ^|. O19V GOT BUT For NeiIYA m9
In developing his forms, the proletarian artist has to
in any case, from strangers, from those given by the old culture; otherwise
it is impossible; ‘because’ there are no others: ‘each class learns from their predecessors
nikov, so that, using their means, develop their strength, their new means
of labor and creativity, and then, of course, discard it. the former ones. But old
diverse: where to study, what to look for? And ‘here appears, among others,
the question of simplicity and sophistication: ‘both’. widely represented in art
natural forms of the past and present. Pii, decide in favor
‘simplicity means learning mainly from the great masters of the past,
separated from naya by a number of decades, sometimes entire centuries, such as,
let's say Pushkin, Lermontov, Byron, "Itiller, 'Goethe—andthose from the late
the closest to them in this. The newest ‘schools’ of the ‘old culture’, s0er-

to
No. 1314 ITROLETARIC CULTURE (59

`sharpening’ especially! on. development” of the form, brought it to such “complexity and
sophistication, wow! and the great predecessors did not think of these things; worth it
just ‘compare, at least, the Russians Nap sings “Vryueova”; “Vaoka,
her friendship - with our common teacher Nushkin.
“I will expound here the new content included in: life; ©but huge in terms of mass

based on millionth emass; ‘It is ‘grand’ in meaning; concluding
-unprecedentedly revolutionary! tendency in work and 'struggle' without everything human -
why it’s new; undeveloped, ‘outlined roughly; manifests itself severely
hiinol Like: huge. lumps! collapses ‘it ›nat old: life,
‘shaking her at her very foundations; What is possible to fit it in? refined-
new_filigree forms to which: artists have brought their art
of the growing, internally empty} shrinking world?: Detailed ‘clearly
pose the question so that the answer is ‘clear’ Of course: no. Only the mighty pro- |
A new artist will find a hundred forms: Rarimie. your task; he. not we he |
blacksmith in the titan workshop. g 7 wakhi E

_`” Vatery Bryusov ‘published under they fished for samples according to
inevac nA zheialatikl samples. ‘it begins after all

BOYU No EO VT ovluo ogo wavetze v, Qi

; ze you sword-hedgehog pyshcha yu
` zeooVeorayaninnyuzhkekhdumueoyaa ‘cho vtaminovsonecheio
: ‘fromZlitey-somewhere-tou there 01 ov evo bvaK
Pashasn, O ini aninim ma BU Zhmiieh,
Long, distant year Cha svakaOsnaiya 37 V
ategoya y ao bedrooms: “beats... bchtmenonine atoy

scrap, #0 Yao av te

ra,

otya

in: about ‘everyone) fight, A; And. FT ‘rhymes of St. Oreviyai.
‘at the beginning) three-syllable; five-syllable; seven syllables, with changing accent
rhenium, etc. duovamye ‘unusual: sizes; ‘poems in’ form. three-
‘gons’ such; some: you can read the same way from ‘beginning to end, go
back; ‘and ‘prue and feast. We couldn't use such "tricks" to combine
then ‘what is great; aleany: significant; even at least ‘simply’ reasonable
content? And even if you don’t go to such extremes; spendthrift in general. strive
`complications and subtleties: will there be any form in the tone! this: inevitable. superfluous
'waste of work that weakens the 'spirit' - and thus: 'degrades', . her
`meaning? Isn’t it true to the poet, ‘for the sake of; ‘some: difficult sound. :e0-
- relationships, based on life, images and other things
lk elovam? mo kaya yudokvalo ivo and pavronovo ydozhysh paooval zaya
om: Form `artistic, like any other, has.' organizational. know
reading. “This is nothing else!” as a way. harmoniously combine the elements of the content,
‘vle. organize ‘his’ material: Always and ‘everywhere the nature of the organization, ‘depends
from the material subject to it; "form what can" does not: depend on: containment.|
And if the complexity of the form corresponds to the content already developed, but
shrinking, decadent\ in the 'irostness that characterizes' the great masters,
is connected precisely by the content of grandiose\p“and ‘developing, or highly
having developed, but not yet going” ‘to ‘upadon: P6iet ioSchiller, and with us
Pushkin, Lermontov reflected the birth and growth of new conditions and new
forces of life, under the influence of bourgeois culture, which darkened and subjugated
the old, feudal-aristocratic "Is the bestial" side, they are, of course, more
are related to the workers of the 'emerging' proletariat' 1 culture, which,
in turn, must replace the entire previous one; 'having dissolved her ray in himself-
shi. elements,
How. development. AiZyA ‘concluded, In 6668 ‘birth. r: ‘height. not
only kalitala: but also the proletariat, after all. bourgeois culture: in, ‚its own. in-
descending 09 aze plucked in herself, although even then there were ‘elusive ones: germs’ and
E: 9 In ‘higher culture. ‚ Capitalism reZvivill ‘connection of the new
cooperation; and how. no matter how it was masked, by its anergic “bubble” from
consciousness of people, but the great organizers of ‘feelings’. they washed it with... theirs

60. PROLETARIAN CULTURE. „No. 18—14

genius ‘sometimes tore this curtain. and raised her to a foreboding; to the troubles
'nogounderstanding of the collectivistic: ‘idevla “More striking than all is Goethe.
asobraziyo in! '\Fauete*' the wanderings of the human soul, which 'seeks harmony
with the world, of a completely integral: existence; ,IN. what’s ‘she him’ after ‹long
effort and! many touches;: finally finds?. “In! labor ‹and labor not for oneself,
I know the benefit of the collective, of humanity. "It's not yet; of course, it's completed
forms of collectivism; there is no ‹idezla) comradely, 'connection;---but’ there is. such a
getting closer ‘to him, which goes far beyond the bourgeois framework. consciousness.
Moreover, Goethe was able to rise to... collectivist tsonym-
niya‘ of labor in general; and ‘even there, where. for’ the individuality of ‘it is no more’
accessible ‘and unacceptable-=in relation to’ everything: business, one’s own. own
life: Here: what he said / oosebelza two. months" until death:

"What, is it! yaosam?. 'what: did I do? I collectedgoi: used everything that ‚I
saw, heard; noticed. My labors were nourished by thousands of different people.
dey, ignorant and wise, smart and stupid; childhood; mature. age,
“old age—everything” brought to me! your thoughts; your abilities, your hopes,
your life structure; ‘I was filming the harvest, sown. others. Mine
the work is the work of a collective being, and it bears the name of Goethe).”

Are there many socialists even now who would think like that?
objectively understand the role of one’s personality in the process of work and development of society
stva? And isn’t it clear what this is for? collectivists, such. geniuses of the past
are better teachers, mseeraznenny = close and dear, than
yah degenerate epigones? o

There are also new great poets, 1 Reni to the proletariat, although not
who are proletarian poets - poets of labor democracy, socialists
intellectuals: ‘Belgian Verharnuolaty Rainis.oIkh,‚ connects: with the worker
class “common ‘ideal but’ to become direct: spokesmen. and. organizers
‘proletarian’ artistic: consciousness they could not;: because the food
‘lis’ and! grew up in.another-world: And they, of course; for our young proletarians
skikh'poets' teachers are much better; 'than all our newest decadents,
modernists," TY from yy zozhotya fi: zi; NOT since›yesterday ‘(day ‘on
`side' of the revolution?).\ E TTI $29. PP chzynaaekhos

oo iNoemotrit; what are they? far away the largest 'of. these epigones, before: mego. they
unstable and unreliable in their content, During calm times: reaction-
‘tional’ They occupy themselves entirely with individual experiences _Azeethetic-
“Wow, erotic, mystical! it. d: Flashes in ‚ and: they! already. blood
great patriots; the revolution comes - and they are gripped by the aching 'struggle'
higher’ideals: ‘then the evil reaction, -==-and again eroticism; up to" as far as possible
new ‘perversions’; mysticism theosophy} ‘and prosiopr..Zinaida’ Giipius, better
than “anyone” ‘knowing them, ‘because’ herself’ HER 6:23 a
also E their Yaya in ‘Ya war: t nopageviy I
8 U SYAYEI. 7 eukhtothea a’ o 6 9".
“Zi Wanted us horde 9795: help ao y
and oraenno GUILTY WITH THE MILITARY na Izhs o ZONE
g.p So that. survive. at least the first sorrows. he is a fantasy
5 Motley we are in: silence... 0. OPON
“Where are you going?” ZN Evoksii kd roy Sineva K

0 War, war, war,” AAA

with erita “vrik”, and shouting, and slamming doors, - bobnovaa” 1:8
ati There was no time. gon zaniai U

Brought to you in the now published work of Comrade. Lichtenstadt (Mazina); killed
vp] During the year on the northwestern front. 'Title: Pete. Struggle 'vv relieticheskoe
and the chirevnoH "Work 'in: all: 'draws the figure! charm kzk great you and
a leading thinker of his time. epe #107,000 | }
AVE va oVovearya" with us. even more. or. less. “They get in, according to the translation “Val, 5 Yusova.” ‘etc.
quiet; vie is quite little known, - there are, ‘few translations’ in “Latvian” ‘collection-
Nikyo“, Gorky Publishing House. But ‘nowadays a large monograph is being published about him in their mouth: Daute,
“who is she” ohnii will introduce our ‘public then eilYatson ov OH? INN
A; then suddenly - like that! ukhikhgobychain-= 10”

The military heat has disappeared, oyazonovion: peaks And
They were exhausted by the menacing cries of heow pon

From your own words. Vmnzepezh JSC
I. young and prematurely aged ati Chtyayekb

Eidut, run back, vi{CH Pezhualiyam ©
To sing again in the fog: the previous haze)
On. former larzoa omnadetnov, zoom M

“Questions about ethics,” which interests the weary. portessu, himself, by; to myself,
Of course, unimportant, it helped. It is good for her to highlight the constant aspiration of these.

54

poets. go. "Along the line. "The most `noise', even when. line. An
they turn. ‚there, where ‚they are not
“the fog, the previous hazes,” to vague experiences, “recited by her intelligence,”
Ghent soul. So ‘it was’. their. ‘zoologisetic “military, heat”, a and h
revolutionary, luxurious, because this is not sluz: ainnost: that’s their custom,”
or rather, their social nature. That's all. it quickly, [9 "swirls, whirls, "mouth, , ALL:.
some, even great content becomes small and ephemeral in their PNVNVAEO
finished forms... And then learn from them, pro RTB VSK “poets?

“And yet, this happens... What then..., that's a small brochure,
publication of the Moscow Proletkult, - doem by M, Gerasimova “Menna. “Iva.
Gerasimov. by. ‚to his: ‘past - present industrial > proletarian,
metalhead “The gift of the portico from, him, . o "all; the echo is visible,
his.previous works; Yes and in. the same, 2 m from. a lot. Arkikh, K.
in ov” slender. and sonorous combinations of words. 10 ‘ot typical pro-

with

kN expressed. great life-giving outcome, eami,. K ‘nedos gatkom.
like this. content, dedicated themselves. entirely, to serve, fo; “Vi, Khodase-,
vich, analyzing the poetic technique ai ol zkurnal E 1] No. 23),
indicates, as his direct teachers, Almont, “Vryusov. `Vely,
noting that only. through ‘they are heard’ at nogo’ the indirect sounds of our
classics; Lvov-Rogachevsky notes hesheztAyakh Blok, 'yod obvious
the influence of which Monna/Liza was inspired" (06especially in relation to the plan
and the construction of the poem); =. with ozoneoln: k. ie mon.
a ‘o I o and, in’ ‘extreme. ambiguity, OE
forms. It's hard to catch, not only that. oh du artistic idea, but,
immediate, HE of the poem. “brazu”, it is obvious that, tsodma, wrote about
just not for rabochikh, in general, 'a. ‘not even for the advanced ones, salesmen. (62:
they won’t rack their brains over metaphors and hints, the second one is past,
In m. long, } mignonette, DEPENDED Chapter 7 About "In it, affairs:

: 7% of the echoing ulipahs of the capital O

20 Droshali:zabko:phoneriuion. but,. Proodemegogovi Leon-o UN

‚5 olo They will circle around from us: in‹еphaltah‘ foam aboutNe-- hde pztavol

b and: page of the morning before dawn, vandesod, she pndoenyatun
5. from U her with many rings: nickname. 5 jerk Etsekh o 8: kicks
d OBO ‚"Koliyita, fiery granite; i.e. E Nikeemt more often moofuunovuto

PE TZDHO na. `Moina Lisa with a secret laugh' in Mantsetnodi at the Atmd
‘otovinio ya@shchalilaya smnevupanitlonoov (it > you in t

p, myvonNzhivshivayuschie shouldersu hundred ateoi a.o.
oh it’s pinkish granite! oo. m horse
From. lanternsjutsaljujuveninoma with oto demyeloskh zones b

hadootsi and odashomi to the spit-covered panel t 2 gedoChav zivoliavn
7 uae Ponikiav ‘granitzmoei: Bo-uvnii 998 at royush 01980049
en and Factory gudkiz sang ''rumor toe. Ministry of Defense
iennodiryuniknovennye poaimykh?o t’vaztledin 079 88490,

Like the current, the siren’s call is early.
Pierced the unkind days of gon sales, IynneoYa
And in buildings. factory: ‘advniy NGO Nitome]

The iron fires were lit. 2 ani
Electric flame currents one y d, eono 1
Her flaming hand to smoldering
They light up the enova''s. re high and › dota

Mimosa wedding wreaths. pyozechi I
I'm pretty much like that. 'naNibana 'all' pobma.' “It reads like a rebus:

there are images, “different” ones, even bright ones, but the connection between them is incomprehensible, and “partly they are ‘non-’
ntna and san” po’ “666, and iru y, Who wants: You can HER. specialists
newni seam “the fogs of the arena 6ra the basics ‘will understand; ‘but’ there are many of them”
snocizlietov, And Obtoit Lee. d ‘Chizh shisAT?` A “‘fucking "vv? go' 'for" Who? "Go"
tolrko “KA svbyat ‘to’ pour out the 6th ‘da’ and ‘sw’ mood”? H6 then
why “to cherish?. And dvvNOe, Ero with those NV, 'changed yourself;
stay on the 5th” Point of view; “on about I speak - about boo
collentavism. .

Poet former60” type, 85. essence, ‘also Ieflot in oto’ ‘vollek-
tiva = Vlas6 a tru ipy. But how is he interested in. This is not‘your

pubyanya" chilled "li" "day. I’ll take off my “tie)” gives him “his Soul,
VI 'Yay s6bya, kv 'vgo'spokesman 'and worker - “ortanizato I? No, 'because
410 those Clubs and “VU upnas, built from ‘isolated “personal betas,’ US
to each other, Cha VOTYu` indifferent. a Part and processed 60} O `M@waiting'
<0b0yu’ For “MeYak”’interests, they cannot’ ferment in their own!idebloE.’ took away:
vono vdiNetna with ‘collectively. “Gam” E ‘for the poet or ar ‘neiz-
E IA Wa ‘either in part. Zvvobinaya But entering him” calculations ‘only’
how' oru. And to ‘career’, often. "what the hell" is impossible to fully understand

and appreciate that creativity. Tate’ in his dedication to “Faust” says: “and
‚6 | TK ov

BEER YAAIE: no anime tolie I sing the sacred Yatimn, . But Iv cha Va
Ntreeeio, DOFvYA the most! Khvyolas is alien" to me, m strapena oto" nonai, 18: od
"Toodesvayue: YARO VEEOCHAOKNIR S, FROM OH 6 ‚(Translation of Kholodkovsky); about Chotoya menivnia
And remember how a characterized t | on: glare,

which, “surrounded 11 Peyna And himself, through whose heads” they spoke
`to the ‘unknown’ and ‘Despise zr eo’ descendants of the ‘known iodlovtyao,
proven ONova. ovaieNo, ‘so that this pubdike is as wifely as possible
you” ь ‘in Нь 1 ‘chvorcheetvy her’ must’ Zviblva” forget”
create “whole” #3 'S6bya “I’DIYA myself; And Chebia “Shov ZN uvt, chb, et0` gave.
wider “And “above evo” ‘small’;i”;° tb“ pripisvyeva = UNDOKHNOVENIIO“
“Muse”, fetishes, under which the living naked colo, ‘6gooshyt) him’
aspirations, ideals. ylotTO iE\ khnyakut &N
Another is a poet. proletarian, He is marvelous. Kawaii Rei is the closest
the comradely environment - your factory, the union of the party; it's not easy for him
strangers and not annoying competitors; which you have to break through, &
employees in the business of life; and so’ as a zonepoet here he Feels it immediately-
more important and stronger than others. If: same. this: no; Tozonpenno can do anything
to be both a proletarian and a poet;” but the young man will not be a proletarian poet. Prole-
The Tara poet, therefore, wears his own? the team merges with it
soul. works with him in poetic orchestra; what the heckevery other
labor and struggle. The desire to be clear for the sake of clarity -
this is adequacy to the collective, this is an element of coplentivism; but" t,

“Monna Lisa” is not a work of: ‘proletarian: ‘poetry, although it
written by a proletarian, although it also contains pictures of a factory and glorification
workers' uprising, everything that is official and illegal!! All this is not enough.
Internal employee of the author; the regulator of its work was not alive
the image of his team. This image was replaced by the representation of those non-

many connoisseurs; who themselves: know how to speak decorated! sti-
creative, rebuses: & among the proletarians, there are no such, ‘yes’ hardly: to

For whom else could the chapter of the pelvis be written? Chaevyatia)R porokzadayaa
chi gentle, tender. to Tovanant ‘Nonize Roy 1
along the Vyuzhuryan brook; then slot 4 res zochatenoa I
g. oYuvrazhek‹snow a little) vn bltovnoen 0 o Vod,
En fuck zb I renaonoepnaN; Ven Eva: Nnozhokh. Hannitno. 90
about: “Jasmine is very feminine!” -akotyaroynop dovzhua. zat
se Ualenandunym, 4: Reader. odenovvemedtan otb, meta
Enthusiastic, iponinti and onzvosen chalk to you
I got drunk again: at the hut. mind 190) ati 45 than, 946
on › p Jealous: thirsty: vlazvatoya, I 456 mrizrmelvy o
I pay for the cranes, ntrontomal kol bovsoknenai eithnei
Yes' I'm new, I'm glad: Mirenafozh Khadetov Anyav reported to Voturovte St.
CHAVdhvruzhevom polyilnoy odeN ‘men, mnoM. edoa i mvnned
‹ hyadudy Zavodezhelezny! kope ) ‘oniazoCherOzVCh Fontvac. HW!
about the tear groans> “the heart is sacrificial: =. NiZozov from Vonaya VaneTs:
. "In flowers, rzhustrub: clothe! to "gotozhano! chefto nat"
G ani mvmozai-, atazochiach» noya totreM ‚vkotezhaakop
and. It's burning. 'zaren, g pdozhagyaos@ntoz 9: so I pa 8 xia
mota <Kyadushche,. ovlzhonnnoy: roses t:
pav in. _ I will take iron; ringing: oN. tavalm ‚votezh
otoryk pgoh ‚about Mudenezhnik: gently, snowing then: (00)
“Wickets ed” Zhizhina Dreams, kayvinlo = oN
vamvo 1 rr tsvetom basks u x oloyaechvterodi 070801
Many Dew-pearl biting, from vtoonyaernoti i voatAeVToo9
ma under the snow: life is flowing; ozomor, vn notnvchinOd khoshrui
6.9 'U rusty krestaznoneo in tsop ©N. hell zy en vdloya
Humidity irrnrtsya „todud otE n ‚oNjomBOa OTON +
a: r zao guzzhontoeto9: oododayun mm ‚› vtotoody ‚#vtN

in Ts osnatsvimoz: sot te ) ›‹ ‚ВЯ одчх о

` It is clear that the whole point here is not in the content, not in the meaning; nororogo bridge,
apparently; and ‘not at all)’ in the poetic focus of alliteration with repetition
rhenium, ratio “70=80”, lit. Let’s rise to immeasurable heights:
those 'newest great masters who know how to write poetry from right to left:
and left to the right; in the world we are alive and in the spirit of the Uz alone:
claesaginal tasks. 1.) ‚from New Account. in this case:
"That's it; of course you're svabyudavy about bovenntyvi yourself like that, shodi-tego, ‚things. to
tiitria isvkh, shazdevtigiyuti cinema: choteol: ‹o@rRoNol9y iynovotsaomtia anrot
In the first one. same verse, a gross mistake against technical, 1 literacy, children:
another pleonasm “gently laments”; like “butter oil”. This is not enough"
would/ designated, great masters": And in the further set of 'words: there are, combinations!
downright illegible (to “put flowers on trumpets”) or comically incoherent,
nye (ureenitsy “zhazkdoy vlaizhateya look at the cranes, how they are rainbow-mirror”,
“I’ll press it to the soul: ringing” ink.) d The focus is poorly executed, sorry, no better than:
well-known alliteration of some kind of otr gramichiniik oron, zha letter yati

kazy [5$ ‹ N t Va 1 |

paradise yy bans, ry knife, 294
and 209: 92 Ubfzna having eaten too much; ov' cho. 5 itoya. they're goiter

r

8 elm for av vyh to" "< know" vanotz
gi to, ArO’ extreme. ‘to the extent and. no. called: pali n s atlE AdlOO'Y VFWY
| Here is another important thing. If such an urn, and bash, I know
proletarian poetry needs something, then chase after them without having yet mastered
technical literacy, in. anyway. unreasonable. “Monna, from” ours-
Sana is illiterate: a lot of elementary mistakes. o G, 5 k e

‘
`64> PROLETARIAN CULTURE №\135:14^.

eV earlier: given: chapter - from the very first lines: of the lanterns, trembling, ha” from?
them! Ititsy: they slide on the asphalt, and then away! same‹fall-—= hoofed dolbii 'Shryamo
annoying confusion of ‘times’; which northitis! every “impression”, it
repeats itself almost at every step. Or, in the seventh chapter: “And the sky, than
the earth is sadder, attracts and beckons? and shede yanizhenodoP

It is not easy for a proletarian poet to cope ©. with a first-class diploma
his business - this is his misfortune in the first steps; ‘it is inevitable due to
objective conditions of class life. At the first stages, “this, however, is not
it is so important while the proletarian reader himself is still in an embryonic state. But
then this must certainly be overcome. And in real life: communication at work, - and
Nalia poets are not alone, they are! sv' sgudiya are grouped; in! mugs, - overcome
flying is not so difficult, annoying little things that distort the shape; can be eliminated
in advance, before printing. In Euroce: ladies: writers have been around for a long time
put an end to the privilege of semi-literacy.. \5 Pa,

How will the “great masters” and close critics react to the work?
Denias like “Monna Lisa”? We have to assume very well. This is for
They are a pleasant disappointment. They’re worried about those going to literature.
a tour of mysterious strangers who have some new, alien point
sight, some new, unusual ‘containment’ and what else? It turns out not
so scary. They get tamed and come out completely! dear, ‘modest students-
imitators. They dream of competing, but they are not serious competitors,
when they have not yet fully mastered literacy, but being carried away by the subtleties, maybe
Perhaps they will never master it. What's better! necessary! only. encourage them on this
ways. And they seem to encourage it. But you won’t have to celebrate! Units,
maybe- “maybe they will be completely confused about his meaning” but: not “exclusively, although nothing.
there is no fix yet. It’s not about the few, at least the talented ones. And for
new, proletarian artist ›the very idea will be generally funny
compete in sophistication with jewelers: “forms: purveyors of themselves
the best diamonds from the very best. glass Of course, catch up with them
he never could. But rise infinitely* higher. ‘Their thing is different, this:
it is possible for him, and it will be. evoazhenigo smozkonozhaga

AndThus, simplicity of form is the most natural and normal for the proletarian
of the artist, the greatest measure of his “oropedic nature” is not modern.
shadow 'stage' of phrase development and what? Chehoo she's here from ovav

`In one's flight of poetry. I tried to define paradise VR). Based on
from the conditions of the work of the most significant type of this scourge, and to speak out in the fact that “smyeleut
what is she, in general; must be characterized by correctness! rhythm: Na) fab-`
Rike'and the factory are dominated by the correct ones: the rhythms of the movement of the machine in which
the labor attention and will of the worker are concentrated, Among this steel,
chaos" - and I said, the waves of different ones are intertwined: "but" in general: mechanically
precise rhythms; with their endlessly repeating blows, honi forged-
at least they convey verbal images of the worker-poet. ‹ Subsequently; when
he- “will become more. ‘accessible to the rhythms of living’ ‚nature where. ‚less: mechanical
nic\u003e rr eochis and: new this’ Ir will settle down! itself’
itself *).1 ch. them: Neither. chg9zh9o.o 8} ochmevtnRoookh URE 91 .

These thoughts caused controversy. with, ''stores Vet of Lviv-Rogachevekogo.: in:
in the book Poetry, new Russia." He 'them! rr ey ‘refutes, fiendirua,
to the truth’ overwhelming’ authorities. | gola ot-Ponaya vaieaotaniye vi |

The first is Leon Bazalget, “one of the best biographers of Verhaeren,”
as the critic recommends it. Bazaljet. writes 0. Verhaerne: ''The secret of art-
His identity was revealed to me when I... stayed! amidst the booms, the blows of the hammers
the chugging of the engine room, when I listened to the gasping of my
motive, and when the Trans-Atlantic Zy and MAE to theirs, 1 in
Inkritih ozchiieiyekt soo r. Yes

{ TY ro and ed. « 4 m Ze and

>>5

y 5 and the working class,” ed., Prbletault, - 74. Ch
?) Quote. according to the book by Lvov-Rogocheedro, bt avdnom vtomelonam you:
No. 13-14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE | 65

+In, while, Leon Bazalget, free verse of Verhaeren/ ‘with’ ‘diversified
let's break it down rhythms... felt: eredi`‹malshin. and beeps. cities, ‘at this very
time. A-;. Bogdanov finds the foundations of “uniformity and correctness” in: those
the best way. He haso in another way: they hear. t lo 'inomuhs are watching
eyes"

First of all, I'll ask where you got your "free"
“Quiet.” At the factory? “in the engine room*?” So, apparently, thinks Kri-
tick, and maybe;---from the ‘quote it’s not quite clear;--Leon `Bazalgette. But this
absolutely. contradicts, it is Verhaeren’s biosrafisch: At the factory he, ‘what
any intellectual; was only a random guest*; didn't come to life there, didn't come to life there
got excited, And; finally, why not ask him himself, after all; ‘he’s on’
Verchy, he knows where his verse comes from. A: How does he: answer? Alas! in an unexpected way
in complete agreement ©‘ completely alien! issues of ‘art A. Bogdano-
“you”, he says: from the rhythms of living nature. In his poem “Esco”. (book

"All Flanders. Heroes") he with these words "turns (to his native river,
1 Pelde Ezko, “beautiful and wild”:

You gave strength to the body, you gave fire to the soul;
Movement of waves. yours - size. my little ones...
(Translation by V. Bryusov):

How did this happen? A misunderstanding between two critics will be easy.
to clarify, but... started ‘need. stop. on two: other authoritative
refutations.

The proletarian poet Ah Sadofiev is quoted; “At the gates of the future”, from
<bornika. “Dynamo Poems”; }

Blind people! remember that everything that is closed is you.
In conditional, toothless; dead. dogma;
In a dimensional, rhythmic form
Not anymore. lives.
I. what is created according to the old aakol,
Immediately. dies:
We, the rebels, the smashers. bondage shackles;
Rick Rama II: Dogma
And forms: |
‚ Because. the poem we created
Life Itself: ...

“This is an excerpt,” says the Russian “critic,” of “his kind of manifesto.”
proletarian. poets. about the character of their poetics”, “And again.
‘What a misunderstanding, There is not a word about... poetics in the passage.’ The critic’ simply doesn’t
understood the poem and took its metaphors literally. There it is. coming. o
real “Poem from Moemk.” So calls: Sadofyev ‘not that ‘other; as So-

Vesian Republic. This Poem, “inscribed in history with blood and iron,”
changes the old "poems about submission, Fate, Bronze Horsemen; -tgets yuta-
first order. lifenor spiritual: structure, mass. This Poem ›‘providers
troshloho, - in the image of a “teacher: literature”, “poet of love”, “fat .mo-
chakha", "Literary Celebrities" were "indignantly! and... angrily criticized:

“This is not a Poem, but a Tale!”

Nasty, rude; Sloppy! oh in
Illiterate and formless! E: shaft
The authors do not know Yaolov's versification,
Size. and rayama > Una

9. “eDynamo-verses”: Ed. IR Proletkultv; page: 18515

Proletarian culture. No. 13-14. 5
66 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No.: 13-74

Everyone: intelligent” to a person despite the metaphors, zyoymet “what” is the matter
is about the system, real human relationships, economics, and ignolitics.
but at all: ‘not: o. (; poetics “From ‘even ‘unknown’ to ‘issues of ‘art’” critic
could. “would” guess what it is: not ;manifesto of poetics “y if” notes that” c.
in the same collection “Dynamostikhi” about the frets more correct
rhythms, › than free ‘verse and in cetes ocher

Third: the authoritative tsifelal-niz ol Penna ‘quietification in Atroz.

“Vvony” (book. “Poetry - ‘working blow’), ‘comparing’ spring ringing
natures with 0-ringing sounds! she’s at the car factory: I don’t bring him: for the sake of the beauty; but...
weight, that, in it, relates to VK! The question ‘can be summarized by Zhiena
The plant has many different sounds; most of them; of course; ‘IravilE-
Me you sing (the creaking is howling 7 engine grinding" of rising prices,

'try' the gears; ? and st.l id: sometimes these 'rhythms' get scattered, namely...
‘when “non-villainous ‘factory’ and would be my’ work6.o=Vee ‘oto ‘maybe) novo Diya
criticism) unalien’ questions of ‘art’ comfortably ‘not ‘for; venerable’ economic
mista,” as he sarcastically calls me, emphasizing my “incompetence.”
Well, what is the conclusion?

Let's pose a preliminary question: they form. ‘different, new’ in general
correct rhythms; ‘swallowing each other’ ‘something of the sort’ ‘freedom’.
rhythm"? Not at all. No.

Free rhythm is a continuous series of changing ‘law-
. dimension; aone' 'several 'braided ^ simultaneous rows and EEli to you
will read at the same timein parallel’ several’ poems `times-
personal correct meters, does ‘this form music similar to that
what does it give: reading one poem ‘with: free’ meter?” Fussky
critic, and perhaps his French author t hemeshali '"chaos-8vu new"
with free rhythm; & these are completely different things:

But the sound of the factory is pure chaos: Dya ‘accidentally
there's an intellectual there; ‘who is ‘nothing’: understands what is happening. Ra-
the barrel of the plant must perceive each rhythm separately: there is none
chaos, everything is analyzed, everything is familiar. And the rhythms that are correct are so
and feel right; ‘& such, undoubtedly}. “the majority, because” ma-
Shchina - let it be 'this is known to the venerable FAQ is nothing more than
mechanism; and her movements are mechanical, and not “free” oya Sy

Next. Physiological psychology says that the shaping influence
on the nervous system is what is actively perceived, what is associated
with her own counter-efforts. But this influence is the most painful
for each worker has exactly the machine on which he works, rhythms
movements of its various parts, to which “he” is riveted with attention and will.
“The consistency of the rhythms determines the harmony of its movements and vibrations
ego nervous apparatus; and irregularity means “bursting violation
code “works, ti vet sagnaya for’ mug pejedi g trigger etiki k voestavlenyk.”
‘and correctness. ›^ : u ьт E : sa

So here's the scientific reason why. correct: natural rhythms
her and ‘closer to the industrial-proletarian poet’ under: the current organization
tions of production than rhythms ‘free. But ‘this is by no means’ the beginning} ‘that
Tervae are obligatory. If the poet feels that “continence” requires” something else, -
how is this gigest in the quoted poem “Sadofies where” is it going on? is about.
revolution; canceling. all the usual rhythms of life; then he will begin to beat
otherwise, whether it will be easier or more difficult. I only spoke out against ibka-
of the difficulties arising from the ‘excessive’ ‘passion’ for the ‘form,which:
harms the development of new content: `And’ here ‘critic 16’ - lack of knowledge.
superiority mocks my antediluvian leaders, it is necessary to be “naive”
"by drinking a lighter form." “Of course, the ‘new’ forms are more difficult,”—-
he says, “but the revolution in content is connected with the revolution of the phoria: Wto.
doesn’t he know this? But if Mr. Lvov-Rogachevsky was “not alien” - at least
questions about the laws of historical development, he would know that the revolution co-

k. YAH
No. 13-514 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. | 667.

‘holding’ en zn zifrezhi revolving forms, a. I don't fuck with
novini: $9,115: KO

''The critic very much revealed the struggle. It's difficult to use hair dryers. "Gervonmola, He
delighted! from "Monna'Lisa"; and talks about this/ poem like this: true, 840

With rare originality, Choet celebrates the beauty of being bathed in light. va-
water; "you beauty is embodied: he has _in the image of that “Monna- LShizili Doki-
window, which was “immortalized on his canvas by Leonardo: da Vinci” (p. 140).

Here is a vivid illustration of this; to what: ‘leads! “excessive hardness”
forms: nitro what: ‘drava, be’ her bol OE”, IRAN ar
praise oo z yun

To pay in zoer and 2v, Mn Lisa, this is not the same) what. in-
to describe the greatness of the ‘American’ skyscrapers in the Madonna-Sistine, From this
interpretations, ‘as the proverb says, ‘you have the back ones! legs! "A
poet; ‘if ‘he; weak, then’ and ‘at all: it is possible to kill. gi; NE

Anything, ‘just’ not this!” Very vague: nakiana, poem; but he ate her
not so ‘monstrous’. I don't dare. exactly. ‘to formulate this artistic
idea. Apparently; in Monna Lisa the poet symbolized precisely that beauty,
which the plant itself does not have; which ‘is enough for him; which is
goes to him’ from outside; must’ complement’ it: the beauty of femininity, nature...
The poet, apparently, wanted exactly: to crown the charm. powerful technology. ‚with
other, more subtle 'charms... But, now; I'll think about it; osh sees for himself,
that’ ‘it had to’ be done’ somehow ‘clearer and. simpler. A ‹;venerable critic“
also, I must make sure, I: At the poetry yessame. Dana has it
your inconvenience: }

But ‘enough’ from the towns: `Lvov-Rogochevokikh. Proletarian: poetry = thing
more serious. O! | ;

What should the proletarian “learn” in “What is important: and |
in nature and in society. Where to study? The science that organizes the past
logo and the present: in concepts, ‘in’ art, ‘doing the same in, images.
Who should you hire as a teacher? Those to whom you can steal: in the present, dear
collective "with 'his' revolutionary ideology, 'in the past - lech. who. widely
paved the way for him with his great power. Then it’s not dangerous
mot go of 2
‹ E __ 42 Bogdan.

yy

“The fetter of the proletariat in the visual arts >)
s `Imaginative | ‘art; stay of beans: ‘always nauzo-pibo, p
taken from the outside of malterialt; is first and foremost a technique... “But...
what’ this kind. technology has its own special name, makes us suspicious
It is important to note that he had such ‘features’ that made him art.
And: in fact, it’s time; How! ‘conventional technology has its exceptional
purpose. ‘satisfying’ our practical needs; skillfully. (eg"
easel! equivoi) 2) not only ‘can! InireronAt" last; But. V. ‘your
the queue requires that every item coming out of: hands. artist, happy
shaft us ‘by its shape; with their ‘external’ sensory signs. Otherwise
speaking; ‘art: ‘there is! this type of technology where any product satisfies
us completely directly, in addition to his preparation’: cracks; even: him
practical ‘meaning, (about16; of course; it doesn’t ‘follow, as if: I’m looking for art-
It seems expedient: when using vases, being OB
d MIA zhrieirdih ry Hellenes). ‘ 3 .novioban
*) The article is published for discussion. Editorial staff:
2) Portable; expressed in. drawing paintings on the easel! (tank). `

68 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 13-14

What! ‘same’ ‘condition; is asked ‘now; necessary ‘for’ that; to
Was the technical product a work of art? Givenabove definition
division 'as such a 'condition' requires freedom, creativity: 'only non-
material activity' can produce results that satisfy us' not-
indirectly: That which limits ‘this’ activity kills the aesthetic
product value; template, subordination to the customer, consumer; ‘mechanism,’
any ‘external coercion is’ destructive for art, which,
Thus, it can be defined as an independent, free technique that can
“therefore comprehensively” and harmoniously reveal human creativity.

This is the potential ability of art, and, depending on those
or other historical conditions, it changes, sometimes increasing, sometimes weakening.

Proletarian criticism, which sets itself “positive goals” in the field
artistic creativity and''wishing to chart 'his' path in the near and
further future, can’t help but’ stop with’ the special! attention to
that artistic heritage; which went to the working class, and most importantly
on the reasons ‘why this’ inheritance cannot satisfy the present
they have three lives.

“There is no ‘more’ burning test, there is no more fundamental question for philosophy
art than the problem of aesthetic ‘cultures Art’ and’: life! t How
to connect two so dissimilar, apparently. concepts? “How to pour in, to put it
high style, ‘wine art; in the ‘glass of life? These ‘questions’ are a stumbling block
knowledge stood `in front of bourgeois science and `bourgeois practice, unresolved
difficult and insoluble in the conditions of a capitalist society:

Indeed; as 'was stated' earlier, 'art' as a 'necessary
This condition requires independent free labor. Meanwhile 'meanwhile' perishing
now‘ build or ‘excludes such’ possibility ‘or be Ugly creative
quality from building’ life.

The era of machine calitalism is characterized, firstly, by the accumulation
instruments and means of production in the hands of private property, secondly,
mass mechanized production and; thirdly, anarchic style+
economicwhom development. Not a market for man; ‘a’man’ for
market - such is the paradoxical formula of the capitalist economy. When
such “conditions are neither the proletarians, these are the only genuine ones, but they are sub-
free builders of life, nor owners who are non-labor elements
that society cannot become the creators of aesthetic culture. worker
subject to the machine, and the manufacturer to the iron law of competition, the Free
there is ‘no’ place for creativity in private property production, and, eledova-
Indeed, the main stream of social development turns out to be a Chinese wall
separated from the artist. Only one craft remains in the hands of the latter. But if
in the guild society of the distant Middle Ages, the artist and the practitioner were connected
into one ‘whole’ with common’ tools of labor! (craft); then in a capitalist society
literally ‘the artist must’ or ‘perish in the’ childless! ‘fight or go to
backyards of life; create outside of it. Not only that: there he ‘worked’ for. consumer, ==
here his “works” become marketable commodities and “their author is an impassable
mine is separated by a facet ‘from’ maes; developing into a sophisticated individualist.

This is how the economy dictates its will to the superstructure. And ‘myelenno’proematri’
the history of European art over the past centuries; we’ must con-
etatize 'secondary' 'dying. applied ‘art’; ‘gradual pre-
transformation of finished styles" into "artificial stylization" gradual
distortion of 'constructive' (i.e. practically expedient)' processing _pre=
meta into arbitrary ‘and external’ decorativeness At the same time! with this at
goes' to mark the continuous digging. “pure art”; ‘namely easel
painting. The backward form of ‘technique cannot’ be’ practically useful: its
destiny is specialized virtuosity, its path is individualistic
“indoor” creativity, in the absence of reality, hovering in the transcendental
the vastness of fantasy or the narrow limits of imitation of nature.
No. 13—14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: 69

One architecture, at ‘first’ glance, should: be a hutbend, kill
the common breath of capitalist sirocco. However, here too. grandiose, stylish
the rapid growth of cities and the speculative pursuit of profit have transformed our
streets into stone corridors; on: the sides of which are templated: in rows
stretched out. box-shaped ‘houses’ of modernity. Not an artist, but an engineer
was now known to the homeowner. Artistic architecture began to be studied
in academies of arts, and engineering; construction. V. polytechnics. |

This process ‘began’ back in the era of urban ‘economy’. ‹Only. early
Renaissance in Tlava ‘s. the brilliant Italian architect Brunelleschi
(189-1466 `g.g.) 'managed to create 'something independent in. areas of constructive
elements of ‘architecture ‹(,ruetics“); all that follows: history, the last
represents 'himself. only a combined processing of antique and. others
motives; — processing is seasoned and stylish; bye was in power
tribal aristocracy, strictly preserving traditions; a: then, eclectic and
often tasteless But’curious; that even in the first case: the new limit
was purely a purely decorative moment, having forgotten how. build,
began to decorate, and! it is quite clear that these decorations turned out to be only external
them, only superficial ones: these are. ';kartuschi' Baroque, such are the shells and
Rococo mustache. But is a wig a necessary decoration? human heads
that time! ‘(baroque. XU ov. and ‘rococo. XU century) ve’ is ‘interesting
representative of “situational”, “primarily art” M
- 'The Bourgeoisie has dealt the final blow. artistic. arch-
texture: French Yeshrie. (;empire“) (late 19th century and beginning of the 10th century) was
her last ‘sad, smile. Archector; not related to the collective
practice, individualist; living only by his own lusts - his
creativity could not be ‘modern-life. Moreover, in the twentieth century. and
20th century artists! were sent ‘for’ construction. only, luxurious,
typically industrial.buildings; and since there is no own, organic style
wasoh, then in front of us. temples grow up like: Greece, palaces. under. Rome, museums
under the Renaissance. And all ‘this: is placed ‘among: an ugly heap
current houses; accidentally, like a burst, inorganically: Artificially became a rose,
plucked from its bush, . rose; stealing a dung heap.

In parallel with the dying of artistic architecture. there was a separation from
him sculpture and painting: This was facilitated by the individualism of barter
economy ‘and technical specialization, in which the former synthetic .
unity: there was no longer room for all the ‘arts’: them. differentiation is complete
to the 10th century, most of all. ›responding to the !sculpture., Representing myself
processing! surfaces. material._in all three dimensions, culture
myspimau as a constituent element. or buildings or, buildings, i.e. streets, squares
it. etc. But at the same time, the process of separating ‘sculpture’ from architecture
another, no less fatal process developed: a broad social life,
bearing her sorrows and joys, her fruits. inspirations and. results
of their works. on. the street, little by little” went, on, no; it was replaced by a narrow and
selfish! family apartment life. Moreover, as has already been mentioned,
chickpeas; construction of cities. determined by unfree ‘organized, will
people, but by the impersonal demands of the market. What was art supposed to do here?
The sculpture either became a formal and vulgar demonstration. class. state
substations in the kind of Z!ezez-ANee: (Zalley, Victory“) in Berlin, - or, closed in. in
artist's workshop, went to the <service of individual ideology. Croup-
The most recent sculptors are either stylized
rov (A. Hildebrandt) 1) or philosophers (Rodin}?), or, finally, propaganda
social activists (C. Meunier) 3); they are all least of all artists,

:) German sculptor (born in 1847)
2) French sculpture. (born 1840)
3) Belgian sculptor (1881-1904)
70. PROLETARIAN CULTURE: ‚ No. 18

kami; all’ they; as creators of beauty; ‘It’s been a long time. otatovnot ka but
mingling in the vicious circle of plots. by:

The SV tone of the “Southern” bondage turned out to be, and painting, “ao.ukartina” “became
the only ‘field of colorful ones. achievements. True, paintings, | those.
images in paints existed before. But if Giott's1) frescoes
served as a visual representation of Franciscan legends, “that” is not: necessary. forget
that at the same time they were linear and picturesque ornamentation of the walls
no plane; ‘even iconographic; ‘essentially; - easel craft. ancient
Rus' or Italy. came from the same ornamental tasks, Completely
The painter of capitalist society occupied a different ‘position’.” It was produced
Denia - products: ‘closed. subjective creativity, and artistic
the form in ‘them’ clothes the unreal ‘subject with ‘one/only’ illusory vision
the power of content" (the "painted" man, the "depicted" sea; "educated"
new lily, etc.) That’s why it’s different. painting cannot. to oneself often: iredeta-
develop even revolutionary thinking; accustomed ‘to: views of nature’, ‘assessments
from life”, “upeihological ‘sketches’ and ‘get entangled in the sins of the pines. banner,
nita' problems about' form! and’ content. Here's where her theories come from:
imitation and dogmatic ‘demands’ of naturalism.

A bourgeois artist, not having the opportunity, and sometimes simply not being able
to paint ("artisan-painters"), is engaged in: ;painting.. In the gr-
madnom! in most" cases. ‘promising, effects and tricks. @veto-
the shadows will make up 'him. formal ‘task, ;image* its plot. goal:
Damn deception! Triple illusion! Since, firstly, the plane (surface
painting) ‘does not have’ three ‘dimensions; so' as, secondly; what is depicted" is not
exists really, and because; thirdly; artistic: form, driven
into the far corner of our attention by the plot construction of the author. .

“But justified | aesthetically ‘even in this form; ‘easel: painting
fatally’ ‘loses’ vitality: kazhitalt one! ‘needs: beauty
And: inspired fruits of geniusnal artists: finding shelter for themselves. onlylv
workshop, only ‘at’ exhibition only in the museum. Non-conditions of everyday life around
zkalot them, and some kind of special, stage; fictional setting. ra uk
It’s typical that such a picture needs a frame! However, let's imagine
A particularly favorable confluence of circumstances: the picture hits. iv.' mercenary
home}^ t:-6. into the very core of life. 'Yusli is the owner of this. dwellings. large

“a capitalist, then he’ll set up a gallery out of his” paintings; more simply, they say the same thing.
museum; ‘if this is an average bourgeois, then he will say: bought. ‘thingzina, Otan
any of their rooms. “You could have asked: na. some wall; in
which room? But this is ‘completely indifferent.’ In market conditions
commodity exchange; Is there anything that binds the seller to the buyer, except
monetary relations? And: Turner’s masterpiece?) ‘turns out to be ‘po’ to the neighborhood © without.”
baked, oleography; hanged (!) on ‘cool wallpaper, dinar zyu-y guest-
Noah, not eating with her; ‘not’ growing’ from: organically by polanoic

Basically, the artists of the past tried to return to the ancient! accept
Tivu: History is not going backwards. But after ‘long, often ‘dramatic’ efforts, they
fell into either 'explicit stylization. (Puvis de Chavanin) 3); either. woo! every day
game of symbols; nothing in common’ © Zhivopivo’ ‘has nothing to do with it! and nay
Overbeck): And only recently, ‘after’ impressionism. brought it.
to the logical end, all UIs are revised between masters; andEuropean-
o Giotto Italian painter (1267-1887 ‘t. her

2) English landscape painter (1775-1851). ^aa

3) French painter (1827-1898): YANU, “Oud 0% 7

4) One of the most successful, imagine: the lei of the English school of the so-called “transformation”

Faelites" 1883-1898). “Nrerafaslites” called for Italian artists
niks of the XSU' and XV centuries (i.e. before Raphael).

5) The head of the German “Nazarene” school (1789-1869) wanted to combine the forms
with Christian stories. -
No. 13-—4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. I

“some art. turned: ‘to one-pin non-rezlismu. ‘Number of: transitions
quality. Subjectivism, aggravated - up to the notorious: ';torn
<knowledge“, killed. in. the artist” everyone: aesthetic interest in the outside world,
how. such; more and more. live up: gives up! from. "images"
the plot becomes more and more frank: it is revealed only “as a suitable” reason
and. mythical, purely formal constructions. No wonder pabige=v0to6, this
the most dispassionate, the deadest of objects of artistic inspiration,
took a dominant position in the paintings of the newest schools. 'However, here
keorealistic: the improvement of painting: it is underway, for obvious reasons-
to us, by: extreme individualism. Case: because there is a return” to creation
constructive form: turned out to be: in conditions. bourgeois society possible
again only within the limits of room changes; Only on narrow! field
“a tank picture, being incomparable to life, remaining a product
subjective fiction, incomprehensible “for the masses, others for arenas
(cubism; futurism ito n.). and ovaa

algitalietic: economy; not allowing / harmonious development
identity; forces a person to create beauty) ‘which’ is an expression of ‘this
ysicho-physiological harmony, ^ out. your life’s path; create,
therefore, phantoms, ‘turn it into an essay
new imagination game.

(It goes without saying that the beautiful will cease to be
beautiful, that's not the point. What matters is what it serves; it matters what it is on
place; important; Is it thickening? it.is outsiders, often destructive
its meaning elements. : And this one. plane" no: doubt < 'pravl-
our "foresight" will be possible. no, maybe). + oh sa

And meural art is a game. here is the alpha and 'omega' of the bourgeoisie
aesthetics. Johann Volkelt;, one. from. the most characteristic - its ‘representatives,
writes: “the world of art is undoubtedly a ghostly world,” and. even stronger: “samples
arts exist and can exist only as ghosts of our
imagination" 1). The German scientist did not. realizes howself-destructive
criticism of the entire ideology of his society lies in the above-mentioned quotes.
Prizravimorut satisfy either the mentally ill or the socially ill,
zkeh; in real life: does not have the opportunity to develop his: talents,
c. a long time ago, artistic talents. “The same “opportunity” does not exist.
exists in the conditions of a capitalist economy; and Volkelg would only be
then right when. in ›“both uratsekh p wordmyziekustva” would be

"bourgeois". { 50 But den oh

oh never, perhaps involuntarily. “irony over the worldview”
not by sight. reached such caustic force as in) the words › of another. ‘German-
first: researcher, Karl "Gross." "Art", (mean: › bourgeois
VB. Au writes. ‘he; uv. aesthetic. ‹smyleg exceeds 'reality'
before. all that. in relation to the creation of art, the game of internal
-modification, has much greater freedom, much more. "projector"
for the development of imitative feelings. A work of art ‘is, so
<to say, a toy: for this ‘noble game and’ created exclusively for
for this purpose. Reality does not exist exclusively for the sake of play and therefore
doesn’t always allow you to play with yourself. The following words. may seem. uni-
‘significant for art, of all things in them. one cannot fail to see clearly. knowledgeology:and
a child would very willingly play with a big live dog, but the dog would immediately
‘snarls as soon as the game goes too far, so the child is more willing
takes up a wooden toy that does not cause pain, which exists
responds only for play, does not snarl and does not inspire any fear,
The noun “first of all” demands: to “take yourself seriously and not” always
"allows for play... 2). Here is the separation of 'bourgeois' artistic creativity from

1) “Modern questions of estetini”, I. 1900, p. 74. ыы
3) “Introduction to Aesthetics” Kyiv; 1399, pp. 187-8.
72 PROLETARIAN CULTURE; No. 181

kizni ‘turned out to be ‘not only, conscious, *but! and theoretically justified;class
Its “thinking” with its “dogmatic narrowness” attributed the peculiarities of its
time to art, ‘as such, at the same time’ with striking obviousness:
©refuting the views of those idealistic critics who consider
melt ‘everything’ into ‘art’ at all times: the creativity of life).

But, as we see, the artist in the capitalist world is by no means
He is the creator of a wonderful life; he is only her dresser, only her decorator}
and, moreover, partial and, moreover, temporary. At best, he is that child
Karla Groos; who unhappily’ tries to flirt’ with the real one’
a biting dog; Bourgeois reality sternly “snarls” at,
him; and he has to take hold of the wooden toy. Museum-= his: temple;
theatrical stage - = his home. What is outside of this is outside of bourgeois use
arts. And ‘works of art are only in ‘rare colorful places’
‘they cover’ the ugly rags of bourgeois society with stains; ‘easy spa’
applying bandages to his purulent ulcers. But. This will not cure ulcers:
they ‘demand. operations. `Many artists; painfully ‘experienced tragedy’
‘I give ›my ‘and satisfied quests, did not understand the ‘need for this
‚operations, and the way ‘them. became through ‘individualistic’ suffering? and
severe’ loneliness: Suicide. Van Gogh ?)›and ‘bepetvo’ Paul’ Gauguin” 3) from
Paris to the Tahitian savages - as Eloquence can testify ©
and us of old EV. |

Now, when the proletariat, this great surgeon of humanity, has performed
its historical mission; more than it seems timely to outline
at least in general terms those paths that’ according to their! class! roles
the proletariat will have to undergo in the field of art, as well as those means
with which to him for this! will have to ‘take advantage. Because to the proletariat. fell out
It is our share to lay the foundation of a new world; and the foundation! this account
eagles and al matter of socialist culture:

Direct labor participation in production and comradeship. co-
‹hardships are those: characterblack characteristics that distinguish"
the proletariat in any sphere of its activity, while simultaneously defining its
- peichology, toletarian is always a realist-practitioner, proletarian is always collectivist
Q&A, his work is almost *external, his work is conscious and? cramped
associated with general construction. In capitalist, ‘society’
there was enough freedom, - he won it in the process of the socialist revolution,

only’. with ‘unable to ‘unfold and carry out. in life from your own

- features that were ‘noted above, ‘The same’ features’ ‘cut
Ogordiev! node of the penetration issue. art into life. The main mistake.
there was ‘bourgeois’ science! that} that: the problem of ‘aesthetic culture’ was solved

‘her within the narrow limits of socially artistic research; error” this.
‘lies’ here in a false statement! question. Art ‘does not possess. neither-
what specific immanent laws. development, strictly ‘sub-
Taking into account the dialectical logic of economic factors, in other words, the path to:
aesthetic culture’ ‘cannot be found by armchair displays’

- nogo, - it is laid out by the dirt itself; the vanguard of which ‘became. victorious

nose proletariat. The task of the horde Eton I okmotite observed! phenomena
and, oh, the direction of their development, go to and forecast

1) According to Volkelt, on the contrary, “the special advantage of artistic eo--
contemplation lies in freedom from reality, in complete detachment from it.”

 (schitir. op., eth..26). And here is Richard Hamann’s definition: “Experience” will be aesthetic

mild, when it is self-sufficient, ›in‹| I'm closed to myself." (“Aestheticar, M; 1918’page: 18); Laman
‹ characteristic. calls. its definition, “the law of isolation” (there).

1

2) The French artist is a democrat. (1858-1890).
3) French painter; breaking with the capitalist Euro in the name of return
to primitive simplicity (1545-1908).

#
am PROLETARIAN CULTURE: 73

future opportunities. Only a 'chan' approach. provides “from the subjectWillow
bias, only it is practically useful: knowing the way. easier
you will be able to ‘walk through’ it. Moreover, the first reno pillar. already post-
vlen: large-scale production in the hands of the workers.

In the first chapter, I had to “emphasize that the extravital
the position of art in capitalist society depended on what
there was no place for the free creativity of the individual artist in private society.
nothing factory enterprise. Completely different prerequisites will be created
‘proletarian revolution. The machine stops dictating its will - I work -
But now, on the contrary, she herself becomes an obedient instrument. But whose:
an individual person, an individual mind? Of course not. She starts
manage a team that not only ‘owns, but’ also works; organizer,
the leader, the author ‘merge with the performer in one multifaceted being,
according to’ and’ consciously producing a generally useful product. Thus
creates the opportunity to create completely freely, to create in one’s own
region, without any external coercion. At the same time, this creativity‘ became
arises from the creativity of life itself, since technology with the help of which inspires
technology gives birth to its own ideas and turns out to be a technique of modern production.
Artist: the proletarian and converts his activities into vital ones
function, and art’ becomes one of the types of skilled labor.

But what will happen then to the painter? they can throw me off: - what?
what will he do with his brush, with his easel? This question misses
out of sight one ‘essential circumstance: this or that level of technology
does not at all characterize art as such - for the latter it is important how
a person will use his technology, and what technology is a matter of the era,
countries, etc. p: The brush will become a tool for preparatory operations, an easel
‘will be needed ‘for sketches, ‚ to paint’ the subject’ will be a car, the same
obedient ‘and quiet in runes. collective, ‘like a brush in the hand of an individual artist-
Nick. Etchings; ‘ek lyitori, › "kivopThe people will turn into “ordinary” workers,
their aesthetic ‘quests will be embodied in real practice, and the ‘artistic
‘shape; decomposed and ‘cleansed’ of foreign impurities by bourgeois’ but-
bearers of torn ‘e-knowledge’ will cease to serve as ‘illusion and prbi-
free play of imagination, moving ‘on’ the real object. 'Not''image-
to reap and to do—that’s what will become the motto of proletarian art. In return
[there are many divisions of artists according to subjects (landscape painters, portrait painters, genre painters

Guy ‘pr.), instead of’ immanent - aesthetic divisions (watercolorists, pastelists
etc.) productive divisions emerge: ‘we will ‘distinguish’ between artists -
| n artists = textiles, ZU Doni OV U MOTaligetov and
E So the art of “transforming” into an effective form of life. d it’s ‘obligatory’
“calls us to come” to one more, “fundamentally” important conclusion: creative
art form, being inseparably fused with the creativity of practice
technical, there can be no Ir other than constructive, i.e.
practically-reasonable.
Sensory signs, taking shape in consciously free production,
‘must become an expression of expedient applicability. Decorative sto-
the flow of ‘things here’ will not be mechanically given to them, but will flow organically from
their purposes. We will not call a table or chair by this name because we know
their meaning, thanks to damaging ‘use’ or habit, is not, and

tol and chair vul shapes and colors to tell us about your everyday life
application.

.

Before moving on to further exposition, I cannot
depend on the views of those critics who often and to a certain extent
rightly expressed doubts about the possibility in general for ‘works
art ‘to become products of large machine production. s
74 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 18-14

`Indeed. V. then. time, like any work of art
has aesthetic significance for us only when. it. original, and
<pretty much like a car. produces everything. exclusively in Maos. scale, because
in pOtherwise, she stops playing. his .role-superior. type, technique,
I. if the machine really should produce c. maximum, quantity
“Your identical objects, then.0b art, here. and think. nothing. Tzablon
‘kills the aesthetic. impression, the last one, how. result. directly
impact. sensory signs, it can only happen. V. in that case
if.they chain. to ourselves, our attention, - in other words, “if they.individual-
"are dual. Conversely: our gaze..will. glide more indifferently, along the.
things, valuing only her; practical purpose, similar. to how. we
Now we treat ours. spoons, forks, plates. which. could. would
produce an aesthetic effect while being far from ugly. form, but
do not produce. him. because this form, in general, does not affect ours. down-
mania; being neutral for us and therefore indifferent
and_irreplaceable, on

Apparently this is the question. about the car. is cut, and, moreover, it is decided › ‘not
atolz proletarian art... However. the situation here is not so bad,
as it may seem at first glance. Yes, the car should. produce
everything. on a mass scale; yes, in. this ve, economic. meaning. .However" follows
whether from this, purely. quantitative. its meaning that. high-quality productive
The importance of large-scale production should be leveled. objects, will reduce
merging them to one template? Definitely not. True, spontaneous economic
process. in society. bourgeois demanded. Procrustean, . box. for theirs. iro-
"products in the name of class interests, guided by one degree or another
ltriwere. But... for ‘proletarian creativity. question .this. loses his. sharpness.
Without destroying mass production, the proletarian collective “has” complete
opportunity c. process freely; coordinated and selfless production:
quality, individualize each item in the desired direction, Here
already, the solution has been set. tasks are transferred to. completely different flatness,contacting. technological successes. I. although. to the present. time. but the last one. not
fully corresponds to our ideals, this. This. only proves it. gradual change
orbits of every form. human culture gays

“It goes without saying that a plant or factory does not contain everything
modern production; , will remain. other areas of application. labor. and. here
absolutely must. All suspicions will disappear." c. bottom. I'm talking about pi-
fate of public construction, where. will enter, and architecture" 2 "orraniz-
tion. sanitary improvement, and tree planting, and communication routes, and
all sorts of other types of future re-creation of social life. Heavens-
grandiose and distant horizons are opening up here before the proletarian.
artistic creativity. Enough. mention that. in many ways. and much more
for the first time in history of mankind. the sowing hand will show. inspired, servant
art;. It’s enough to point out that, for the first time... the artist’s word will be lost
strength in construction, not only intercity, but also
cash

However, the most important circumstance that I would like to address is
The reader's attention lies in this. c. the very, approach to, application in this
the field of art, creativity, in what, I would say, method. „Az method
this one flows out. from those the same, devil-proletarian activity, etc. psyches that
decided. This is a principled position for us. of the proletariat in its relation
research into art. We are talking about collectivism, and this concept is necessary
taken in the broadest interpretation. Collectivism is called as a commodity
rische. collaboration being. denial, individualism, ‘so. and
deep consciousness of universal and. in the non-territorial connectedness of the proletarian
interests and tasks. Pooletarium. does not have. of the fatherland, Marxism asserts;
the psychology of one’s own bell tower, one’s own “I”, even one’s surroundings, is alien
No. 13-44 _ PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. 75

to the slave class, because "not otazhova, "veto: giving. "That's why › in
sphere of social and everyday lifeconstruction ‘they can reveal everything more fully, 95
talents. Z K OZAR

Moving on / to a concrete outline of the paths outlined here, I ‘remain
I’m updating on some particularly interesting ‘i. essential! necessary
points, since a complete analysis. would require ‘too much’ space, not
answering those ‘goals about the general formulation of’ the question that ‘I asked myself in’ this
steel and in which any specific ‘example should serve: aa
illustration of what is being expressed: position.

One of the most important is. c) future about proletarian: practice; ‘without
doubts; will be occupied by architecture: But ‘not’ in the ‘form) of a separate’ building of ‘one
at home, av: as a constituent organic element! in” construction 'city=
Dov; architectural “plans will cover streets, squares, ‘even’ whole
cities with their gardens; parks; access roads, lighting and sewers
national/weapons: The gradual growth of technology will be accompanied by
guided by: e0 side of ‘subtle, artistic: taste; transforming cities
c. stylish and constructive’ creations of monumental’ art. By force
state: in dictatorships the workers will embody their greatness in “life”
creative ideas, paving the way for free creativity. socialist
sky ‘system. The engineer and the artist will become comrades in the common work of art
no matter how strange it may be, “maybe; for the ‘modern’ consciousness; but’ ‘deeply.
I'm convinced of that. that ‘not so’ the time is far away when it will be possible to see the creators
beautiful things on the railway, on the shipyards, on the agronomic
works. New types of artistic specialties will emerge; ‘will appear
new. methods and techniques: life, sharing it, CT
t and

The picture just unfolded would, however, be ‘unfinished;
if one of the most pressing “objects of modern times” were left “aside”
artistic 'disputes: 'Sprativalot: 'what' will happen 'to' all' those
types of art; ‘who Tang flourished’ until ‘now?’ like what kind of
side will the sculpture develop? what will happen to easel painting,
frekovoy etc. dist d.ooNo OE atm {Ve x

Revealing the real content of these questions and reducing them to one,
it is more expedient to ‘put’ him in the next painful ‘clear’ and re-armed
formation: will “art” survive, “how” “image”?

Marxism responds to “n6gb” in “general form as follows: blames” more than necessary
mine and useful ‘dia’ of life, › everything ‘unnecessary, ve’ perishes,’ can be replaced
‚unknown by the highest” and ‚face-to-face environments‚ performing ‘the same’
task. . ) | re =
So... p sirazyvaetsya:: p (li. de toi - make r yach
will he have a picture? o\

Before answering this question, we must first answer
‘to tyrannize the era of ‘revolutionary dictatorship’ from the era of ‘socialist
sky society. Despite the fact that the culture of the latter ‘will appear directly
with the development of the principles, ideas and tasks of the pro-ariat, it is thawing
from the trolley culture by one undoubted and 'deeply important' sign:
‘lack of class struggle. Therefore, much of the ‘410 maybe;
extremely necessary for proletarian culture, will be useful for the future
of the future communitarian ‘society: Only one thing’ can be said without a complete definition
by division, self-sufficient literaryism will sooner or later come to naught,
‚ burned in the crucible of the workers' state. The need to draw more beautifully
will be replaced by the cultivation of a real beautiful forest; desire’ ‘crably sculpt
the human figure will retreat before the social creation of a beautiful body.

You can’t, “clearly, ‘count on’ that ‘this’ change will happen right away or
‚even, quickly; forced to go for technical training to representatives
individualistic intelligentsia, the workers will inevitably perceive from their
76 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. _ No. 134

the teachers have a lot of things that are alien to class consciousness and have become independent
new master artists, will be able to bring new forms to the field of their work
creativity. Fortunately, the process of “deobjectification”, as I am in the right place
indicated; started; at least in painting: even before the bourgeoisie
nicks, sweatwho had a taste for the “image” - the plot.

From. moreover, however, ‘what is the plot. art’ ‘will lose to the proletariat
every meaning; as ‘zieart’for art’, in no way’ follows;
as if it were there at all. ‘will disappear: ‘The experience of the ‘October fevolution shows’ about
sufficient convincing necessity in the period of class citizenship
war to use not only a purely ideological, (but also a concrete figurative prototype)
propaganda. A sculptor will be needed here to erect a ‘historical+revolutionary-
nal and symbolic. monuments, picturesque - for posters; advertisements;, even
signage. Here. A huge field is unfolding in... features’ before! sought-
etvom. monumental fresco; ‘decoratively in wide ipinias and paints
enriching the architect’s construction plans and at the same time’ clearly
formulating the ideological principles of the proletarian movement. Even portable
an easel painting can. played a `significant' campaigning role? K
The “productive” artist will be joined by the artist-politician. True, in
socialist society; at. direct. and ‘voluntary communication’
people who lead wisely. ‘own: activities; ‘konktetnaya’ gap
Ganda will lose hers! old meaning. The future will replace it; ‘to many scientific
proof, social education and practical ‘preparation for that
goal, which will serve in each given case as the ideal of coo in

Another area, the application of paintings, turned out to be “indiscernible” for us.
Noah, namely the area of school education. ‹ Proletarian school ‘using
all the conquests. scientific and pedagogical thought, will attract painting.
‘walls. Geography and natural history will take advantage of the landscape, history and literature
rature - portrait, genre and historical painting; nonedobitea ‘even, payigo-
og. But not anymore. one. only. artistic talent: required from auto-
ditch, such works; the last ones. will have to answer: exact tasks
science, in fact, any profrazhia is true, dolanaft zori is strong
skit. goodbye wow

It is necessary, however, to noteGuess this one is new. the role of art is hardly
there will be. and widespread and long-lasting, successes, artistic
photography and cinema will make you howl. artist ono sai, uerokh them:
mathematical precision, replacing. his entire work"

yoke But inescapable. field. “Images” in the coming society “will remain
book and sign. Illustration of children's and. fiction, and
also sculptural or colorful symbolization for any “kind, social-
public institutions (schools, scientific institutes, hospitals, factories, places
entertainment, business centers. etc.), being: practically, useful,
will give the lover of “pictures” the opportunity to reveal his own ideas and ideals
Zhenya, only? - they will ask me. oooh minds. - Don't you really want this?
not enough? - I will answer with a question. nnbot

Will it really lose art? from what: his: inspired › search
will leave. from illusory dreaminess and soztimendoliam to the great ogo
vital. construction? that

‚ Really. will suffer. painter who turned a 'room' easel from
final. artistic stage path, to the transfer room. station, › sending
colorful visions in real life, Ukrainian clothes at home, utensils
even. nature? k and no.

No, no, no! moss

“The flame of artistic joy, 1 only then will light up in full brilliance
over humanity, when it stops smoldering dimly in the lonely fireplace
individual in a storm, and in a thunderstorm, on the distant projector of the collective
fight for. peace.

—
No. 13-14 PROLETARIAN) CULTURE. ‚77

The best of the Hellenic myths, it tells us. about: how. Prometheus-
The Fire-Bearer was once bewitched by an envious man. Zeus; about how garcias. tormented
his chest. Art ‘also turned out. in the chains of capital, and helplessness,
loneliness and despair suffocated him. Now it’s time; time. Titan. finally
free, And if we want, the life-creating fire of Prometheus. jet
poured over our veins - our duty, our duty to destroy forever,
to put to death forever the already defeated but still trying borotAll Olympus.

6. Irvatov.
Struggle for socialist theater.
$. :

First congress. on the Workers' and Peasants' Theater, held in. Moscow
(November 1919) extremely. instructive for anyone interested in: questions.
socialist culture. ‘Despite’ eva ‹ special character, he
provides material for some general conclusions and put on the agenda for the day -some-
what interesting tasks,

The congress met under an unfortunate name, invented ‘in the depths of
TEO (Theatrical Department of the People's Commissariat for Industry) and extremely characteristic of
ego of opportunistic theatrical politics, striving. vee. reconcile
and eat everyone.

Indeed, if we can talk about workers’ and peasants’ power as
vol. certain political union, then distribute. this. term. ‘on
theater area, i.e. to one of the types of culture ‘it’s the same as talking about
worker-peasant psychology, about worker-peasant literature. etc.
This means allowing the grossest confusion of concepts and merging heterogeneous
ny social groups into one whole.

“And it really is. coming. not at all about the unfortunate term, namely. o
desires to soften the harsh position of the proletariat on cultural issues. and
loosen, strict. class point of view, seen as a precursor to the peasant’s influence,
Particularly heated debates took place around this issue.

At the congress there were representatives from. all corners of the Soviet Republic, but
composition. left a lot to be desired. First of all, they were extremely weak
Proletkults were appointed (there were delegates from three proletkults) and.this. it was
An unacceptable omission on their part, The Village is a true story. not provided, so much
peasant. delegates, how many villages do they have?
no intelligentsia.

Struggle. at the congress it was between the two main modes
ical faction, to which the military proletarian delegates and the military
group, representatives of cooperative organizations, professional associations
unions, large, provincial delegates. etc.; in

I was satisfied. a significant part of the conference. who: voted. then
with co-operators: tose ‘communists, It is characteristic that the majority. report:
Dov, theoretical provisions and practical proposals were put forward
at the Congress precisely by the providers of the communied group. Supporters
others. currents, sharply: rcheenoh shi on the frakyaya of the communists, for its sake. would
utopianism, almost the same\ They exhibited speakers not only according to the devil
but also on practical issues, worker-peasant tvatra.

Eitse. something else is more typical. That's it. time as theoretical. ` position
of the communist faction. about socialist theater. were after the known
hesitations of the Congress were rejected, the Congress in its majority accepted almost
entirely “all practical, proposals put forward. proletarian group
and ideologically closely related to. general. theoretical premises. fractions:
Especially in this fact. not only calcareous zoodtoia was clearly revealed -

78 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 13-14

the presence of the peasant and intellectual groups of the Congress, but it showed up. actually
ical absence of ‘u. figures of the peasant theater’ own practical
programs. If the communists did not manage to carry out their theoretical
chesical program’ in its entirety, then ‘yet’ ultimately ‘communist
faction and figures of the proletarian theater okazaliev and ani I
and ‘not ‘most but And soar eo S’ezda.

: A

Despite the fierce ideological struggle of the Congress, despite its
diversity and existing theoretical and practical disagreements, on
German It was clearly revealed that... ‘a whole series of provisions on the foundations of the new
theater by the majority O’ezda-accepted,

First of all, there were essentially no objections to it. theses about
that socialist theater will be born “not from a professional theater, but from
‘a new, amateur theater of the working masses. The participants of the Congress came
knew that the ‘creative work of the proletariat’ and kreetyanbtva’ in the field of theater
is ‘the guarantee of his new: rebirth, which is ‘precisely ‘thanks to her we are
zhem.'with 'cheerful confidence. look at the upcoming theatrical prospects
Eovetekoi RRussia: Even cooperators; who were extremely shocked’ sharply
negative attitude of the communist faction towards the bourgeois tetral-
new heritage, they had to admit that only through a new modernization
for the masses, there may be a renewal of the theater"

In exactly the same way, they admitted that it was precisely thanks to “amateurism”; and not
professionalism in the theatrical business, it is possible to create a “theater” on new
revolutionary principles. This 'your' principle' lover, 'who is
speaks about its essence to the principle of involving dynamic masses in the teutral
the matter has always been especially sharply condemned by all the theater professionals. ‘’

For'@riding but to the active-peasant theater 910% neither: nor one of
most! indisputable.

No one argued against ‘that. the 'new' theatre' must have
new 'ideological' 'content and 'new method' of work' True, in 'this case
opinions regarding specific forms; the second ‘will accept the new theater, are you ready?
tealy disagreed, but ‘the most complete cops In in 06x is
types was realized by everyone,

So, for example, ‘it was’ ‘recognized that all 1 ‘festivals are also
must be included in the area of thestral work. In’this’ case‘ I have-
There are several points of view: `The majority. O’ezd joined ‘ke?
himself, developed in my report, characterizing folk ‘celebrations as
a unique type of theater, and especially ‘as one. from the paths" to the new tvatr
mass spectacle. A more extreme point of view has also emerged (which, ‘not
doubtful; erroneous), which identified the ‘future’ theater exclusively with © on-.
native festival, and putting a ‘sign of difference between’ the concepts: social-
listical theater and folk festival in the era of socialism. Absolutely
It is clear that the theater was preserved in the socialist era; 'which is nothing
will not have a common © ‘folk’ festival. Theater where performances will be
stage not in large groups in front of spectators, but in everyday life
maybe five to ten actors. ‚5 s

The idea of collective creativity. in the 'theater' and the idea of audience rhyme
to participate in theatricalx spectacles so heretical for professionals
theater, met with extreme attention from the 60’ side of the participants! `S'-zda.
Practical proposals on this matter were approved by the section
plenum. Of course, there are different points of view here too.
The communist group definitely emphasized that collective creativity
Quality is possible only with a certain class unity of spectators and tactics
that the involvement of spectators in theatrical productions as “active”
it is conceivable for participants to fall away ‘only with’ a certain social unity
of the entire masses who visit the theatre. Vyacheslav Ivanov, defensive” choral “beginning”
_

No. 9-14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 78

in the theater, the revived choir thinks as ‘some kind of’ national action, ovu-
valid even in a crowd that is motley in its own club composition.
The chorus is completely out of touch with his problem. and

unification ‘and ‘disappearance’ of the klasvos” in general! oh

Thus, “there have been quite a few” points of contact between
_ details of the ‘new’ theater. It became clear to the basin that it was now the turn of the Day of War
more` and ‘more’ ‘have to’ ‘put’ ‘practical problems of its sura
theater; so' Like' the time for this 'has already come. .

Interestingly, ‘most of the practical’ proposals adopted by Orna
were based on the experience of the proletarian theater and this case of Nrolotkultye
discovered veyu’ significance and yy for’ en srov VZetvk

r. ,

Of the disagreements “on the Central Committee, two should be especially noted: BEYA detno about.
relations between the proletarian and peasant en and dispute 06 ‘relational
approach to bourgeois theatrical culture.

“Nroletarskchya” group “definitely” indicated that it was a peasant “theater”
can successfully build itself only by walking hand in hand with the proletarian ‘theatre’,
submitting. his `ideological influence and heading towards a common communist
goals. Peasant theater workers tried to put forward the slogan of self-worth
the independence and independence of the peasant theater. Proletarekaya ‘group of perfect
never encroached on independentthe existence of a peasant theater,
but (noted that} my mother is ‘away from’ the pro-ietar ‘influence’ in the ‘hall’ of everything.
there is a deep dependence on the bourgeois i. petty bourgeois culture.
She pointed out, “That the ideological liberation of the peasantry is only conceivable as
transition ‘Nrestyanetva’ to the point of view of communism) ‘t.-6. his lol' fucking
relations with the proletariat. "She'.'knocked the tange; 'that' is 'no' special! Christian-
skoy culture, ‘as a culture that ‘wips away’ and ‘destroys the culture of Boer’ =
zhuaznuyu, no ‘and ‘maybe’, ‘that’ is the greatest year, unguarded by you,
characterized as the replacement of bourgeois ‘culture’ by ‘proletarian culture’;
and thereby the “bourgeois” tvatra”theater! and reletarekim.:

S’evd did not immediately define ‘his’ position on these issues: first
initially; On the first day the theses of the proletariat group were accepted, and that’s all.

“A few days after the ‘revote’ they were rejected?”

In relation to the bourgeois theatre, it’s exactly the same, in the end, but
bedila, 'more 'moderate' point of view; In the debate, opponents of the ‘proletarian
positions ‘accused the ‘proletarian’ group even of’ blasphemous relations
to 'bourgeois' culture; ‘obviously › nighting her’ diya ‘themselves tag >
In this case, an ‘extreme’ diversity of views was revealed:

These characteristic disagreements’ at the ‘Congress’ force ‘us’ to nominate! ‘on
The turn of the day is “two” tasks” for “workers” of the Funvturii ti tyameE proletarek

Firstly, the time has come to get your most serious attention.
work among the peasants. There are still “extremely” few Proletkults.
done in this area. It is necessary that the ‘beginnings’ of a pro-dietary culture

“have become” the property of the “Kreetvyanskaya maysa, it is necessary to engage in energetic” growth.
propaganda of “communist” cultural “construction among” labor,
peasantry. We must not allow petty-bourgeois ‘intelligence’
tendency. living in the villages, clouded the spirit of labor peasantry and
turned him into an admirer and defender of the bourgeois, cultural background
logo Work in the peasantry Proletkults should be put on a “very
before the day. This means that they are concerned not only with the direct work
in the village but ‘and active’ participation in’ all kinds of things. Congresses of cultural
character, where representatives of the peasantry appear: “On this topic, “Nrole-
The ‘Tara Culture’ will obviously have to publish a number of promising articles,

and PC. K, Proletkultov to develop: a number of practical wishes. = ›.

Another. another one! The task is to more accurately determine our attitude

to bourgeois culture. Our ‘general position that the Guru

and and
5th
80 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 13-14

past we. critically process and. we use it to create ›nola
culture, extremely general, etc. subject. often overspreader
ny interpretations. It is often forgotten that the spiritual growth of the proletariat is fundamental
rests primarily on a spiritual gap. with the past, etc. are trying. presented
to bring the working class into. the position of a timid student who does not dare to say
words, for now. no, he will memorize the entire alphabet of bourgeois culture. Exactly
now, when the intelligentsia is pouring into Soviet power, when the bourgeoisie
Zia has finally lost hers. chances in Russia—the danger of influence. drill-
zhuaznoy. ideology. especially strong. Right now we must extremely
sharply and hostilely criticize the bourgeois heritage, and with extreme caution
with the freedom to choose. from. it is something that is subject to assimilation. and. processing.

I repeat, we must emphasize our break with the ‘bourgeois past,
and not our apprenticeship, as they did (until now.

These are the significant problems of the day, and again this is subject to discussion! more
‘carefully and in detail. study,

Congress on the Workers' and Peasants' Theater. clearly showed what exactly
at these two points. we are still very weak. We are obliged to take into account the received
a lesson for us at the Congress and energetically correct the omission that has been overcome. .

P. M. Kerzhentsev.

Labor school in. representation of the average worker).

“Taking upon myself the courage to speak out on the issue oflabor school, I
I must warn the reader that I have no special expertise in this area.
knowledge, except for randomly read books. in pedagogy, practical life
significant experience of the average in the development of the socialist consciousness of the worker.
And yet, despite the insufficiency. knowledge in the field of pedagogy. I'll take
take the courage to speak out. with a big one. confidence;

Convinced confidence in. the correctness of what I will say.o
principles of the labor school, based on my knowledge. revolutionary knowledge
Marxist. method. and the ability to apply it in practice. After. only. what
made reservation, I. I think it is necessary to start with what. should:
‘to proceed. everyone is a conscious socialist. Before. how to start | decide-
nu. one or another upcoming. tasks, the title of conscious. socialist
imposes.on.him. duty to quote interested. his questions ‘directly’
<connection with the ultimate ideal—socialism—and establish a practical “position”
tion, in which the path of development towards the final ideal is the most
short; at the most. the short term is approaching. implementation. socialism and
its further development. ‚Basically. principle. ‚socialist. "building
is socialization. production etc. distributions. This is related, ‘How ^
known, p. developed technology, which allows very significant. happiness
socially necessary labor. convey more. strong muscle-machines,
and, liberated, in a person. time creates the conditions for... free pro-
phenomena, creative possibilities for gaining more and more power
over nature. ov

Official position. vol. Unified Labor School: education, basis
Akol life, must be productive. labor; not as a medium
payment of costs. on. child support, and ‘not. only as a teaching method,
but; nominal; as productive. socially necessary labor“... In the example
hope. To this main point it is added that. "Likola is, school
commune." Now: we will question the readingbody, what connection does the main
the beginning of the Unified Labor School. with the established one. Marxists' view of

+) The article was intended ‘for the magazine “People’s Enlightenment”, but did not appear

instead of fundamental disfigurements. It is scratched in the “R. Kul” after: the doe of the deceased
author. ‚Ray: } th, $
No. 13-14. PROLETARSKAYA VI, 81

socialist system. Reply to this VIC as the viewer sees it,
a bit difficult. Not because, of course, it’s difficult to establish a connection in general,
but because the ‘basic’ principle is extremely vague, it is compromising, in it
at the same time there is yes and no, yours and ours, and ultimately
The choice is left to the practical discretion of the performer. But if
carefully read into it, in ‘the situation there is undoubtedly a strengthening
one slope. side At the beginning it is exposed as the basis’ of school life pro-
driving 'work; further explanation ‘and then again strengthening is preznekho
provisions: - “precisely as productive socially necessary labor” ’
and ‘the note further reinforces this’ by the school commune. Better than all searches
meaning, it is easiest for a practical executor to come to the conclusion: racematrix
define the school as a school community with a productive social
necessary labor. If we draw this conclusion, and another is provided
Doesn’t it seem possible to you, dear reader, that this itself:
Is a depopulating school-commune like ‘a state-in-a-state? Not
Is this similar to the ideal of our old petty-bourgeois acquaintances?
philistine anarchists? I think it's a cottage industry. school will be
have the same connection with socialist concentration: o
production, as if we had it in our heads And the boots are dented. #.-EYUG
steal; that ‘it’s like two peas in a pod like a real egg, what
reasons force supporters of productive labor in schools to introduce
him'! c’ School as a necessary condition? If the introduction of productive
explain labor by the desire to involve children in performing common duties
and increase productivityIn general, this has no meaning. When
the twisted 'technique' of 'socialist 'society' has no need to attract
children to participate in ‘production in order to increase the production of necessary
dya’ society’ products. This public duty will be burdensome
nitive ‘and’for adults. But maybe children are involved in production
products" will contribute to the development of a sense of social
full rights with adults? ‘I think that this is also more important
of great importance. Appropriate participation of children’ in management and organization
school provides children with much more material in the sense of education
social feeling, In my opinion, the introduction of productive labor into
school as a goal stemmed from an ‘incorrect attitude towards work, from intellectual
Ligently Tolstoy's understanding of labor as an enclosing property,
him himself: go‘ on his own. This peculiar fetishism of labor’ was transferred from
idealization of the people, and then the worker. When the intelligentsia freed itself from
idealization, attributing to the worker Properties that are not inherent in him, then attributing his own
illusions ‘she is not about physical labor; & then for everything related
with difficulty:

'Being breastfeeding is a necessity and nothing more, but all the words count
the joyfulness of labor and other descriptions of its properties - a leisure activity
fantasy practicing verbal fencing. It's not about joy
labor, but ‘how’ by social necessity we owe them. master and eat
to call it a means of oppression, but a living medium, and an indicator of growth
Si forces humanity to gain power over nature.

It is necessary to clearly ‘m’ definitely say that it is work. c. should have gone to school
introduced for educational purposes, and’ ‘only. with educational There is a school
a school, not a workshop or production. 'In addition to organizing education,
the school ‘should not represent anything else: since the school wants
turn into a kind of special state in miniature, or productive
commune,” this will be ugly and ugly, and will affect education and school,
like a tazhovoy. Shk taskols ‘to give the opportunity to pass by the age of 17 and master
principles ‘achieved to date; as in 'domain theoretically:
its ‘science, Tak`i’ in the field of practical technology; master during this time
“to what” humanity has “come” as a result of a long historical journey.
Paula must prepare citizens who are fully adapted to society.

Proletarian Culture No. 13-11, 6.
82 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 8—4

U
certain requirements, and at the same time be able to unearth hidden ones |: Soul, ka-
each individual ›abilities, which could be developed..with, all”
their inherent strength.

Having introduced the hard-working principle into school, we... must adapt him’. in
level of advanced production technology, give a clear and straightforward ‘representation’
not 0 all the ways to facilitate production. products. For this purpose
not>bho dimo ‘proyazvodag ktassifakats tyu. crafts according to the style. their main
princess. Naarim ‚r, processing: wood and metal has. many common ones. meth-
Dov in s10603e approach and perform. ‚works especially in. building
and applications in this field of machines.

The production of artificial flowers is associated with coloring, carving
on wood and a visual acquaintance with the structure of flowers, I mean. botany
chesically All this should be studied, between. connected and. must pre-
follow purely educational goals: expansion. experience and disclosure of opportunities
opportunities for choice and disease or less correct. groping individual
dual abilities, where “the future citizen could freely develop
their strength, moving along with social development, "The task of the school can
to be alone: to go through and assimilate what has been achieved, the results of what has been passed, human-
ism, both in the field of social sciences and in. areas, material
achievements and conquests. This means that the whole question is in the methods that should
be mastered both practically and theoretically, We would be Gluats
and sentimental dreamers. if they taught. young. codedness
dance from the same stove from which the ancients began, the ancestor. Our
the task is to givean opportunity for the younger generation to start living their lives to the fullest
< the same summit that the frontline climbed. squad of modern
humanity - the world proletariat. And I’m still burning, I need to quit this harmful
‘chatter about a self-service school’, a commune with ‘productive labour’
'This sentimental, intellectual-Tolotian stupid invention, coming from
finely. "bourgeois and petty-bourgeois prejudices. anarchists who: put
the foundation is ennobling and beneficial. dark influence of labor. „-Brud, flattery
natural necessity, which in the interests of development and achievement:
forward, it is necessary to overcome the problem that must be mastered. Skoda only; should
give concepts about productivity and give the opportunity to master, practically
and te)retichaska in the basic principles of production Nlaegoyashlya scho. care
the level of productivity will be prosecuted. I correspond to tsimi. this one

area production organizations. In washing dishes or. in.etirka
linen nothing can be beautiful m, good_›native..in. for hygiene purposes
nic and partly aesthetic This work is necessary. . From this side we
must arouse the necessary interest and public duty in him.
It is also necessary to become familiar with all the devices that provide
the opportunity to make this work easier, less time, and get it done.
more enjoyable.

If our frantic guides in the school of productive labor,
would take the trouble to understand and assimilate the principles of labor processes of this or that
another craft, it would bring them much. more benefit than exaltation
high fantasies in the milk-bourgeois style. about self-care, “and all other
goy beautiful-hearted. Nonsense Here. example: someone is working. nice
Russian carpenter lay down 25, remade for this, while a large number of different
figurative vada furniture; at 26 years of work. They gave him some shkai to make. unfamiliar
any kind and shape, but as a sample, give me only a photograph with
this cabinet. You can say in advance what to do and even step in
he won’t be able to, or the best,before you do it spoil it
material for two cabinets. And if you give the same task to the average one. hundred-
to the Swede, who had just graduated from their trade school, he took a photo
Fia will first make the correct drawing and then. and myself. cabinet. Here in. this
is at first glance simple and seemingly well-known to everyone
r proper organization of the school, and not the game of spillikins that they want
UE: PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 83

enjoy our sages. The French have great respect for it. métier—=professions;
and every day laborer is proud of her. He is very reluctant to change the furniture', 'if
he will happen to do this and move on to a new profession; that's an adaptation
to her He has a lot of time: much more than a Russian worker.
The Russian emigrant worker adapted significantly to such cases.
rather. This is explained by “not the special ability of the Russian, - the Frenchman does not
less. capable than the Russian, but simply because the Russian is strict and narrow
Metier but had, his acquaintance with the craft ‘was’ wider; 'thanks to less
division of labor. Although by experience, the principles of labor were
are familiar on a broader scale, and practical skills are more diverse.

The school should give an understanding of all modern methods of work, teach
put them into practice. Absolutely no craft ‘she’s everything! equals
cannot teach. One day one of our great writers
Seriously taught me not to express my judgment about ‘public!
the activities of the famous ‘Aleksinsky, (This was before the war); about the activity
which I responded too harshly to.

The great writer motivated his 'edification' by 'What do I have about non-

enough knowledge to have a judgment about such a great person; how’

Aleksinsky. To this I answered him: true; ‘I, as a’worker, didn’t’ succeed

acquire serious knowledge, but ‘for that’ I know the Marxist method, and more’

or less tolerably I know how to apply it in social orientation. -Obla-
I consider this method to be a significantly greater advantage in terms of performance |disagreement with some professor who is full of knowledge, but has not mastered
such a perfect method as the Marxist one. Despite/ insignificance
and the gap in my knowledge, I said, I am much. I will outline more accurately and correctly
political line than, for example, the brilliant Tolstoy, p. his huge mind
and knowledge. This is a circumstance, he said. I am a great writer,” they force
don't refuse me to have your own! ‘judgment and being ‘closer’ to the ‘truth is concrete:
nogo question than people with more knowledge. I am convinced that I was right:
and my acquaintance is a writer” “then I was forced to admit it:

It's the same in work; it is important to ‘master’ OSNBNEEMI < y ernsth how”
theoretically, yes. practically. : :

Correct positioning, work in the bottom of the PTKole is only possible with “votes”
no connection with its organization. in the ‘modern industrialized ‘Iro-
from a close and close connection with those priests who before: are social-
istic society to its members.

Education must be ‘adapted to a socialist society:
"to his requirements. Any chatter about 'freedom' of food is 'intellectual'
Sky chatter no more. From the society in which a person lives, he

It can't. E `Fedo K
r. alinine

To ZoZyv of the second All-Russian a `‘pro-

About cultural and educational organizations

(Proletkultov).

Central NY All-Russian Council "Proletkult" at the beginning
January the following appeal was sent out.

In ALL PROLETKULTS.

Comrades! ©

Central. ‘Committee’ aa VN: ‘Proletkult Council at’ meetings

On December 32, 1919, the Presidium instructed to begin preliminary
work on convening the Second All-Russian Tan of Proletarian Cultures
tour educational organizations 'Proletkults'), development of standards for pre-

C =

st
regulations, order of the day. and compilation of a report" on the activities of the proletkul-
comrade on the ground. And

The developed plan will be proposed for consideration by the All-Russian
Council of Proletkult and, upon approval by it, a specially elected Organization
tion Commission will begin. to direct cosIvu confe mi,

By this time, it is necessary to restore the proletkults on the Gral. and on
Ukraine and reorganize, again in Siberia. |

All this’ work. given the current difficult times. conditions and ‘lack of necessary
number of responsible employees ‘will require a long time,
especially if we take into account that the local proletkults, according to
charter; must convene their preliminary conferences, and the Central Committee must
will send out abstracts: reports on issues of the order of the day. E

In view of this Price. Com; Vser. Sov. Proletkulta offers you in a hurry.
nom’ order send:

1) Detailed: a report on your activities. for, all the time. existence
organizations © indicating: which studios worked, _ how long. time, how much
was in. them studiotsy: and.what is their composition (workers, intellectuals, peasants,
philistines}, by whom: the organization was served, what achievements in studio work
botage; what is from afar, what is the theatrical and choral repertoire, how much is open
clubs; what assistance. rendered to Red. Armit, what determined the success
and van at work, etc.

A list of questions that you... would find it necessary. ‘discuss at v10:
Roy oe PS Since this conference will be strictly business
character then. and questions must be put forward in a primarily practical manner.

3). Get ready for the design. shroletkults in yours. province (county,
city,’ or region). , By. According to our Information, you have organizations...
If you sit down: opportunity, formalize, proletkults are just emerging,
take your time with this. Accurate lists. „registered proletkults se po-
fractional? reports on their work, as indicated above, must be submitted
to the Central Committee of Proletkult; otherwise. case, oh
may lose access to the conference.

All planned work must be completed and detailed. in Central
® the Proletkult Committee no later than March 1, 1950; war and ome-
The delay will greatly slow down and delay the convening of the second conference.

` At the conference. there will be. open. All-Russian exhibition aboutleterek
creativity, so local proletkults should. take care of the selection
valuable, ‘material that came out of them. studios; painting, sculpture, `sketch
theatrical productions, artistic posters, literary works
magazines, leaflets, musical, works, artistic developments
These posters about the activities of organizations - all this should. be pre-
staged at the exhibition.

Comrades, show your energy and enthusiasm in the work ahead.
If at the first conference we laid a strong foundation. ideological foundation, then
the second conference (`must build, and the palace itself’ from where, and teaching
proletarian. ZI was illuminated. K ‘grossing’ but t\sti-
ical life. | } VA UE I UPO |
Predoed tv. V. oh us

eh Sing, Lebedev-Polyansny.

g

The Organization, for some reason, did not receive this appeal and did not apply
Those who made reports must hurry to prevent the convening of a conference.

3rd All-Russian Congress. The Council of the Joint Stock Company decided to convene the 2nd
All-Russian conference of proletkults on September 15 this year. g.
Highlights of the day: 1) Report from Ts, K. on the activities of proletcults. _
2) The volume and method of work of the proletkult. _
30 professionalism. h
Ab 18-14

PROLETARIAN’ CULTURE.

}

4) Oh, the workers' theatre.
`. 5) Organizational issues:
``’ a)’ Staging’ studio works,
p ‚ ’_b) About scholarships and fellows.
c) About the age composition of the studio students.
Abstracts of reports and norms. representations will be published
No. 15-16 of the magazine “Proletarskaya Kultura”.

The last day of the prism of materials for the All-Russian Exhibition of Pro-
letkulta ‘15th ‘July.’ s.-g. For the sake of safety and speed, materials should
send it by ‘mail, and’ with those heading ‘to’ Moscow> dying

+

Chronicle, "Proletkult"

Abroad. A.

(From a letter to Ts.V.S: Sing).

According to our condition, I give. report on

cult work. and position, in-
'shrosa' in Western Europe. Possible, was
next ‘work.

Austria. “Flying Leaf” was published, noto-
ry would: distributed during the Partytag. From-
oran also the Commission, which. is engaged
studying the issue of’; ProletkulYes. She
develops questions: 1) founding a club
bov Proletkult, 2) communication with the Center. Com.
Shows cult in | Russia, 7.3) compilation
special library of articles on military
prosam of Proletarian Culture, 4). connection with
‘other’ countries: O’prole’. stump. it was
’several reports were read; accordingly

current” cycle of lectures on problems.
hetcult is installed: for pain in youth
dei:

The comrades are working: 1) on three brochures
frames about the general cultural work in Russia
siya, ‘sb’ special. part about... done-
cult and’ articles” from the magazine “Proletar-
Sky Culture"
No brochure ‘exclusively. © ‚fly-
stump. These broppors will be “mocked, pro-”.
lighting section of the Communist
Parties. In the daily communist
press’, even often her articles about
Proletkulte.

o ‘in general’ now the ground for work
unfavorable due to political
and economic status of the country. Kul-
tour and educational work: here in general
stop! not at a particularly high level. Except
Moreover, comrades are often overloaded with another

work and not. can devote themselves entirely to work.”

proletkult.. But the ‘interest’ and ‘impulse ® work
strong Abstracts caused flammable diets
discussions. Visible; kaz miogo still, unthought-
nogo. In the summer we plan to convene... not-
big conference:

Germany. Here, like in Austria, there is work.
that Proletkult is often mixed with the general

educational work Clubs emerge, |

partly communitarian, partly Soviet-
th shade, Proletcult literature exists;
articles and brochures translated in Berlin.
They cause a lot of talk and a lot

2) over. big special

Voznesensk,

interest; _ spreads ‘okay. | B
‘interesting’ and ‘delighted’ appear in the press

married reviews. In the near: future,

it will probably be possible to organize several
reports all over the country.

Poland. A magazine arose in which
all questions of Proletvunt are judged. One
one of his comrades, who was at the Izrteytag and. ra-
who works in the field of cultural studies will enter:
relations with Austria, Germany and Russia
He is alsowill carry out theoretical work
practically in life, in clubs.

Oman appeared, ' written (‹ work-
chim, who may ‘become | one
one of the best works in literature. By
the content and form of the novel is purely food:
Tarski

Italy. Rumor has it that the Waubs are founded.
There is a magazine; ‘dedicated Proletarian-
yours, Culture; for his sake connected with
Austria.
“In general, dear animals,” it’s a matter. coming
ok. ‘We are waiting with anticipation from you: steel
brochures, protocols, works. prole-
Tara writers and news in general,

Hello REN

[158% X,

- 3rd _ S*ride. autumn ometa

Proletkult.

15 - Since April there have been vassals
Congress of the All-Russian Council of Nroletkult.
A delegate from) Ivanov arrived at the congress
Tver, Tula; Smolenek,

Saratov, Yaroslavia, Moscow or others

and from reports it turned out that about

BE oletkults grouped Not me-
not 000 `workers, of which! 850.--40 you-
works a thousand. in various studios.  Congress.

‚passed with a big one. whether the series is of interest or not

important fundamental decisions.

In the Dawn of the Day there were questions: reports
from the field, 2), report. Ts.V. Prolezkulta, 8) ©
convening of the 9th All-Russian Conference
Proletarian Cultural-Educational
Organizations, 4) about ‘professionalism, 5: about
the work of proletcults in the Labor Army. i) 6} ©
further Ortho AA and Euronaradoto m
proletvultov.

Resolutions adopted:
86

1) Regarding the report.
After hearing the reports of the delegates with vengeance

Central Committee count. 3rd Congress of the All-Russian 06!

Veta Proletkulta states that ‘ve
despite the extremely difficult ones. conditions, work,
related to general political and economic issues;
nomicheevimi: “conditions, Pronetn ura
managed to complete the worst part of the plan -
work, capturing the ideological and organizational
tionally the broad masses of the proletariat, among
of which an already defined layer has been highlighted
independent responsible workers.

2) 0 convocation of the 2nd All-Russian Conference
I am Proletkultov.

3rd session of the All-Russian Council Prolet-

cult. decides to convene the 2nd All-Russian
Conference of the Proletarians_ Kullu-
tour-pro-vegetation'organizationations (Iro-
Letkults) on September 15, No. 20'g. according to
principles of the Proletkult Charter, approved
;awaited by the 2nd Congress of the All-Russian Council
Proletkult. .. Ye Yiru
UToradov.day: 1).0b’em. and_hetod’ works pro-
Letkult, 2) about professionalism, 3) about work
than the theater, 4), organizational issues:
a) ‘construction and! work of studios, 6)`about the
growing {composition of students, c) about, scholarships
and 'stinendiatah: $$:
B) 0 more professional.
For purposes. successful „overcoming the drill-
vois cultural heritage and organiza-
nizatsite of their culture working class from
amateurism in the field of creativity should
go. on the way. comprehensive education
tions, distinguishing themselves as specialists into departments
ny' areas. artistic culture,
All sorts of intellectual arguments that
leaving the proletariat from production leads to
separating him from the class environment, ideology
and psyche, have. meaning and strength in, bur-
ju8nom society. not at the moment
‘when the workers’ and peasants’ state goes
to peaceful: construction of communist
ignorant life, classes. \
* If we are not afraid to tear off the machine
the proletariat to govern the state,
no, no reason: to fear that specialization
tion of the proletariat in the field of art -
creativity ‘will lead to a break with one’s own
class. ABOUT ;

For practical purposes: 3rd Congress, Vseros-_

The Russian Council of Shroletvult proposes
Price; Com. Proletkult (start co-
building in Moscow of the All-Russian Palace
Proletarian Creativity with the corresponding
1tsimi ‘studios! for talents. from. span-
Riata. In’ connection. ©. this co. second All-Russian
the ‘Siysk’ Conference should be
The issue of scholarships for studios has been worked out.
tzev and other conditions, specialization

on the ground; ;
0 work in the Labor Administration.

Having overcome. co-revolutionary, offensive
the attack of the imperialists on Soviet Russia,
The workers' and peasants' government re-
goes to the peaceful one. building life in
areas of material and spiritual culture
tours, and for these purposes the Red Army

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

ovulturno-creative work. ,No. 13-14

least. the possibility and need to re-

leads to the disintegration of the Labor Army.
To the Labor Army; performing collectively
organized, socially free

"work is the first step towards communist
organization of work and life, processing
‘saying the biholism and ideology of yours: x
members” in prolelarekohm directions.

g Woovidoo! this Chroletvult. must: prepare
pay serious attention to Labor
army, having joined the corresponding mutual
relations ‚6 ‘organizations governing
Labor Army, for the purpose of ‘acceptance on. yourself

__ In addition, the city decided to reopen

in Moscow under the Central Committee of Proletkult. Prole-
Tara University named after F. I;pi-
tnina and. managed a number of other small posts
‘new. 12 1 MA

{7 "

3rd All-Russian Metallurgical Congress
with a cackle then etovey EY
Poyotamovil; that members of metal unions
sgov'' dojva take 'active participation
in the ‘ortvnization’ of ‘proletnkults,’ and so on. as well as
in their work, as in organizations of associations
who carry out cultural and creative work
tarizta, oh? and Yao y
“In the Province. 14
‘To the newspapers for Pyun—December 1919 t.).
In a general overview of the work of Prolezkul-
comrade, so I am a general cultural-educational
work for the past six months; possible.from deep
with great satisfaction. say, “what - not-
looking at the terrible events at the front, which
were not given the opportunity to concentrate
'attention to educational matters, health
The worker’s instinct nevertheless told him.
class; that ‘no’ construction without\pro-
“The message of the masses is not possible. Extreme lack
the current 'intelligent people' in Russia are under-
sufficient number of specialist workers
si in’ this tea pushes to ‘work. in the area
cultural and educational. construction.
The proletariat understood; what is not allowed | put, for-
dacha ‘like this: ‘first calm, then. pro-
‘luminescence; first ‘victory, then ‘social’
stic ‘construction; ‘but it has to. th-
say: “all forces to fight for, “victory,
but at the same time, a strong staging of the cultural
about education and enlightenment." |
The guide below shows thato-
done for the completed half-year of work
and in the field of educating the working masses. by--
how much it was reflected in the press, oh
Conferences. Proletkults..
Samara August 20th", Nroletkult;co-
‘The 1st Conference of Raoochi cultural-
educational: organizations. 1,
. Vostroma. August 20th to. initiative Pro-
letkutta fucking, Club Congress. Work-
WINE: KIRA o anode
Ostashzhovl On August 22nd the Con-
workers' conference „cultural-educational-
organizations on the issue of reorganization
Proletkult"... }
No. 13-14.

Rzhev. The first Citywide
Proletkult conference. :

‘Rybinsk. On October 22nd the General
City Conference of Proletkult. °
"Izhevsk. Citywide Conference Pro-
letkults took place on October 22nd. _

Ololensk. December 116 happened according to the following:
initiative of Proletkult Conference Kul-
Tourno-Prosv. Ort. Smolensk.

The work of proletcults:

Petrograd: For work at the Literary School
diy’ Proletkult attracted the best ne-
tors led by M. Gorky. Lectures are given
daily. A cut is made on a weekly basis
synthesis of all literary works, co-
acclaimed by the listeners. Kipuza activity
planned in the “Proletarian Arena” department.
In the Theatrical and Educational Studios of Success
it was also possible to attract the best forces of pedagogy
cultural theatrical and literary world.
At the Music Department of Propetkulgt
The Scientific and Technical Section arose,
which set itself the task of researching
personal phenomena in the field of music.

The Presidium of Proletkult introduced a proposal
position to begin organizing the All-Russian
Sysky and all non-resident Prolet-
cult. The museum’ must gather and
classify everything that is captured
on paper from the field of life and activity
Proletkullov. 'Iresidium and addition
accepted and entrusted with implementation.
Reorganized ‘completely work Teal-
ral Studio of Proletkult. Diya fight
© desertion carried out. a number of performances,
giving the opportunity to explain to deserters

their fault. Held at rallies and concerts
a number of aspectsAkley, there was a play by Comrade. Arokhogo
"Red Soviets" and "The Legend of the Communard"
‘Saara. The Literary Studio sets itself
task to develop a cadre of proletarian pi-
'sateli'" and poets: 'Methods are being developed
work. The yoke of October took place solemnly
military ‘opening of a club at the Samara Tru-
barrel factory. The work of the club is carried out with pain
they are raised, they arrange interviews,
lectures, is felt in everything. that the board
‘wants to ensure that the club comes second
‘a home for my members. Very

The October celebration was successful at the club:
Ory revolution. and the web
°There are a number of Studios working at Proletkult,
steps have been taken to establish communication
with the county. Decided to come to the rescue
Children's Proletkult. °

Moscow. In: Music Department “Pfolet-
cult organized studios’ choral’ and

if singing:

Kostroma. 6 5abuse of ‘club representatives’
bev' decided to rename itself to Club
Section ‘at Proletnult. In preparation
informational ‘material about’ the work of clubs
diya "of the supposed urn. In general
meeting of Prolezkult it became clear from the de-
nladov” from the field; that they work very ‘weakly’
almost all cultural and educational cells
nor to the “Union” “Communist cells”
suggested to ‘pay attention to this’
bot. At the meeting of the Troletkult Council
subsequently recruited for work in Pro-

PROLETARIAN. CULTURE.

‘predominantly.

_

87

`

Letkulte a number of paid co-workers - epetsia -
sheets. The Literature Studio is being organized,
which will have as its task verbal
new artistic creativity, and familiar
train workers with creative techniques.

_ Rzhev. The Proletkult Council undertook.
work is underway to organize the Musical
ny Department. A number of historical readings have been introduced
theater in the Drama Studio. "Scheme
The theoretical work of the Studio is fascinating
Proletarskaya theory
culture, history of theater and history of drama
tic literature. The letter opens -
tour studio: A number of courses have been arranged. io puo-
petcult work. In factories. factories
and trade unions work is underway
in contact with the Prole Counciltcult. -

Tula. Lip. Proletkulg in local mass-
headquarters recognized the need to dispel
its general activity as persistent work
bot for agitation and ‘propaganda of the ideas of com-
Munism through the arts. Organized
Children's Proletkult, which in fact
On this initiative, he is preparing all his devices
for work in the Red Army and allocates from
today a group of children for military intelligence
telny service. .

Belev. Proletkult opened the Literary
section, which through its activities has become
vit: 1) organization of a wide publishing house
and the spread of proletarian literature
tours, 21 lectoral and organiza-
nationalization and propaganda bureau. this
segii in close ‘comradely work’ all
squeaking ‘poems and prose will be @perfect-
stvoveya. in literary technique. Sobi-
All material for the monthly, “Rikhr”
Revolution“, and - hu a

Children's Proletkult was opened. which one is for
has a short lifespan
already 7 craftsmen. ^^“ E

Theater performances: ^^‘

Pet) fence. `Theatrical Department Span:
the cult has been transformed, the leadership of the leadership (i.e.
the Arts Council was elected; which
new ones were examined and accepted for production
plays; in addition, developed. nlan theater-
special performances of proletarian poems
Chinese poets. In Tevtralny. Department Pro-
Letkulta is scheduled to stage a play
Arsky “Yerasnye Dawns” and “For the Reds”
Soviets." On December 14th the first

evening of proletarian poets. oh oh

Borovichi. At the People's Department. Educational
Vania and Proletkulte created by Velinorusekni
orchestra, whose task is to cultivate: to
native music.

Rzhev. In the Proletkult theater 6 big
passed with moral and material success
plays “The Weavers of Hauptmann”, “Lyadya Vanya” Che-
Hova and “Days of Our Lives” by Andreen.

Rybnisk. Proletkult City Theater
opened with the premiere of Tolstoy's trilogy
“The Death of Ivan the Terrible”, preparing for release
production of “The Seagull” by Chekhov and “Ghosts”
Josena, “The Karmazov Brothers” p “C: R. Feo-.
Dor Ioanovich". On the day of October 1st
“Freedom” was staged. `Study
wines "Teatralnaya S"studio postarlero:
I’Saryiyaya from Cremina”, 2) “Rusa; ka”,
85

8) “Gypsies”. Very well played too
Iesa “Bova Vorolevich”, In the Working Club
“The studio appointed its own team =
new work “Don’t go”, = t

Ostashkov. The Proletkult Theater consisted of
“I am a performance © with the participation of the artist Ge, shaa
his play "Execution". B day, celebrations
October Revolution Proletkult on
state tannery was given
siectaul, staged: “Rapists” and “On
safe house." : Въ

Serdobsk. Dramatic Studio Prolet-
The play “Glow” was staged at the console. Troupe

role-playing cult staged “The Groom from
knife line." ov

Tula. brilliant performance of “Ilodov”
tros-sheniya" Propetkult artists revealed
bring out your best strengths.

Belev. Staged at the Proletkult Theater
< 1following things: ;,Ghosts”, “Our Days”
"Ekizni" and "Ballet"

With the participation of the Tula Vocal Studio
Gubproletkult, would have put 10: “Mel-
Inc., sorcerer, deceiver. m matchmaker." Proletkul-
Tom was also arranged, December 10th evening
Russian music. b

Aleksin. For the surrounding villages Prolet-
Vult was posed: “Not always to the cat
Maslenitsa" Ostroveky,

Shuya. A concert took place at Proletkpube
folk song, the song went well
convict “Oh, you are my share, my share.”

Mosva. Special corpse raffle-
“Red Truth”, it is assumed
& production: “The Avenger”. .

Nazhny-Novgorod. ’Nroletkult nosta-
“May Night” by Rimsky-Korsakov was released.
The production was quite a success.
^ Sylran. Theater Studio Prodet-
cult staged a play from working life
“The Unemployed” and a new play: “The Risen”.

Izhezsn...Proletkult: “was abandoned
„niesa E. N. Milyukova „Altar of freedom and
Love" and "Unemployed" by Sophia' Valya.

`Workers' clubs.

' Moscow. Clubs are open: 1) on Trekhgornaya
Manufactory, 2) at the Union of Youth Iron-
nodorozhny district, 3) at the “Working Dvor-
tsyo* named after K. Marx, 4) under Golutvinskaya
Manufactory named after the workers who died ‘at
assassination attempt in Moscow Com it. R.K.P., 5) Red-
army men of the 11th M-th B-on the rearabout the militia
nia opened their club in Zamoskvoretsky

Ione, '6) at the Prokhorovskaya Manufactory

TT International.

Pettogra). Clubs are open: 1) named after Oktya-
break of the revolution, 2) under the state
printing house named after Rosa Lyukoenburg3) in
Selke comrade Uritsky opened
vigilante club in the Ligovo area.

Proletkult organized a hall in a number of clubs
preparatory lectures for club members,
those wishing to take part in the campaign for
Sozet power. In the pub of red prints
nicknames named after K, Liebknecht and R. Lückenburg
general education courses are organized
second degree for adults.

Tula. Union of the Garment Industry
together with leather workers and pasture farmers
the club opens. :

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 13-14

Bostro.ma. In the club visa there is a whole
a number of new beginnings: the ex-
down the Volga. In the 1-0 workers' club
took place. literary, artistic
morning dedicated to Retsan; you were there
Discussion on religious issues.. Vlub
The association opened a school for the illiterate
adults. With great success in this. club
passed the spec. Akl: “On the eve” of Nevsky.

Buoy. (Koezr. lips) Ochkryg club! E

Samara. Department of Public Education
5 clubs have been opened for young people
kov factories and factories and for children of workers.
On the initiative of the Council. Trade unions at
“Avorce Labor” is being organized as a union-wide
club, with the goal of uniting disparate
but existing under separate ones. unions
cultural and educational societies.

Simbirsk, In the Palace of Labor
AN O ku. A. , s

Yeazan. Workers of the Osvovnoy Chemical plant
A club has been opened for the Czech Industry. Ra-
Porokhov's casks. factory suggest
organize disputes in factory areas
active clubs, General Assembly of the Union of Ra-
Botniks of the People's Nitania recognized that they were not
needed by organization, worker, club. ›.

Yeladuga, (Kazan province), ‚Restored
club activities. Uk

Lyzran. Workers' and students' club opened
youth, he opened a library,

Rybinsk. In August the opening of the
bochego club; the performance took place, staged:
„Cherez Krai” (comedy in three acts).

Astrakhan. A club named after comrade was opened. Tru-

owl and with him’ organized a musical |

circle, also opened a club in Bavaldinskoye
area, ' oe ayai Viy
Vyatka. The Railway Workers' Club from

a club named after Zinoviev was built. At the opening
representatives of the K-ta Party, Gub-
executive committee, etc., indicating what the club is. is-
being the center of political life. › about
`, Kuznetsk. Club named after Oktyabrskaya opened
revolution, and with it a library. E

A number of clubs have been opened in the following cities:
in Kremenchug at the Globinsky sugar plant
water, Nizhnedevitsk, Voronezh, Vepolye
(Yarosl. lips.) Gomel’ (at.
Orsha, Don (Club About Incomes) Ivanovo-
Voznesensk, Krasny-Yar, at the station. Kalino-
vichi, Novogorod, (Trade Union Club) Rzhev
(Needle Workers and Workers Club), oh

Proletarian universities and courses.

Petrograd. S.1st. October section of workers
Universities Dept. People's Image. decided
open 9 universities. 1st. October. from-
is covered. folk - Railway - road

polytechnic. Expected to open
a number of literacy schools for food eaters, chickens
which, at daily:8-hour -busy-
tyah calculated. for 3 months. Open. school,
whose task. is the preparation of decto-
a ditch among workers and youth. from. her own
natural environment. d:

Gomel. At the district and city department. People-
a lot of education. open. evening social
educational courses. Accepted. everything
measures for the speedy opening of the proletarian
university.

Evening courses),

.
1

„No. 18—14

Shuya. Department of the People's Obradavnwe from-
general education courses are hidden.
_Eagle. Technical knowledge courses are open.
The goal of the MRSs is to “give workers theoretical
‘training for architectural specialties
:10-construction, ‘mechanical and electrical
technical Yeeeee

Na poraai Orkdvonok "Gibayuaanom: Sovde
in Public Education, fast accepted"
innovation

ROLETARY CULTURE.

66° ofkrytni" ‘state-

89

2 Tver: Otery rabchii faveniet, Oferiye
People's University, students "more
`1,000` people. In addition to “general” narrations
`nektsiy, ‘highlighted 'nurvy irofeelibnal-
‘nogo’ education, ‘welsh-economic 1
‘buHhgalyerenie, pono Nota
Tomet. A proletarian university was opened.
„ Nizhny-Novgorod. Sostoilov December 8th
-beating the workers' faculty
Sovereign's evobodnye artistic

m b

‘universitega as part of natural-mathematics-› its Comgesariat of Grudn

‘gical and non-gical, faculties.
Orsha. Proletarian ‘university’ opened
and special ‘foreign language courses’
Syzran. Department of Public Education
a people's university is being organized
dichesvikh purov
Voronezh. Trade Union of Metalworkers. pre-
rely on E opening short-term ‘pro-
professional courses; the purpose of the courses is to give
opportunity for metal workers to get
at least basic knowledge of their own
speciality. t HER
„ Organized short-term courses for
> training, leaders, workers for
etsvih, gardens and ak
Kazan. Cultural and educational ‘From-
Instructions for Installation have been developed
picolas of general literacy. workers

Representatives of literary forces’ ‘pobtan-
Willy open ’ specially literary

shchursy, pursuing two goals: 1) familiarity

‚stvo. the broad masses |e literature and 2)
‹third-party practical help starting-
shim. poets and writers. Also open
‘proletarian mochtovo-telegraph school.
‘The grand opening of the pro-
‘Tara school at the university. 1st Nov-
‘Or the working faculty is openly open
Sri State University - Open
' CONDUCT
ulnetsi. At the workers' university ` from-
‘Indoor chemical laboratory. Reading
‘lectures on biology, political theography
Physics and Anatomy, At the University of Organiza-
‘A number of special courses are called. peda-
‘gogic, military leaders and sisters of mercy.
The ‘okha of literacy is also open, since ‘as
a significant number of listeners are illiterate
'i. not prepared. to listening to the lecture.
‚ Bursk. Collegium of the Department Nar. Arr. developed
‘tan series of courses in which students will
‘get acquainted with the main provisions of that
‘andor any other branch of knowledge. Higher education open
Tobacco school and ootke educational courses
sy for adults. m
° Novotorzhek. In order to familiarize yourself with the work
sneeze crazy. professional knowledge
“Courses have been opened for the preparation of qualified
forged, working and ©special installation courses
Zenstov, and in

Vyatka. ‚Open, workers and peasants
Library courses. y yy.

Moscow. Held on 8-20 0 September torae-
prival, otAkIe of the special faculty at
1st Moscow State University. Opened
Faculty of Arts at the Institute of Ways of Co-
communication. Special courses have been opened
gkevennogo production and four-month
zhursy on the textile case.

open to smokers for qualified `ra-
workers according to their specialties: A
Astrazan. Council of TGroprofessional So-
ozov’opened on September 22nd city ‘tru-
dbvoy polytechnic. E
‘Simbirsk. Approved ‘openly gobudar-
of the university “in six” departments
niyami. And that's it
'' Saratov. Sri 'iron-Yaitein plant
`"Employee". ‘opened’ branch of ‘worker’
polytechnic, which aims to ‘sta-
‘here’s a message to the listeners of the updates: technical

‚cultural knowledge. KovyH.
Samara. Department of Public Education
Literacy trilicols are open for those who are not.
Smolenv. Iri' Proletkulte' are open
3-month 'general education' courses.
Instructions for placing the icon have been developed
`literacy' for workers. In tubernine
“3 universities were established, except for ‘tosudar-
natural, and, ;
There is information about the discovery of folk
‘university in Vyazma, Ustyug, Kireanovo,
Velikiye Luki and peasant universities
comrade In the village of Krasnoye, Tula province. in Ga-
Stensky volost eb) and at the station
'Balashovo, Saratov province. en

g ``Theatres’ proletarian and folk.
_^` Vremechuz: Department of the People's Obradov-
nia. organized ‘Ukrainian mobile
‚a troupe that must give within a month
‘12 performances. Proletarian opened
_ekver. E given a grandiose con-
cert. 3 va b { t V yy
‚_ Nizhny-Novgorod`' Youth Studio with ueie-
‘Home held’ “Sevtra” Kedrovy.” In 'People-
"Nom House" were staged "Meshchah" Grief-
and,
'Sa.iara. Po! Goni’s initiative “god oh”
Fortress Rifle Brigade troupe
Comrade Zadolsky's "Death" was staged
on the barricades" and "Renewed Rosenia"
which aroused great enthusiasm among the Spectators.
Kazan, Organized by a 'traveling' 'national
nal troupe playing in Chuvash
language, 'the composition of the troupe is about '16, people.
Collegium of the Provincial Extracurricular Sub-Department and -
shared on December 6 repertoire and artistic
council, whose work ‘should be
Participate in the development of a reference point: social-
go, classic and healthy laughter. |
Petrograd. For theatrical and dramatic training
master of the Red Army, for the purpose of general
“nation of amateur literary performances” in Chii-
rocknh of the regional army masses, formed "
jury but consideration and award 1re-

to the plays written by the Crab Army men.

Cultural and Educational Oshdeya Vaeil, -
Ostrovsky's edit opens a dramatic
90

skaya studio. Great cultural
the thesis has an integral meaning. Narvsky
district. A significant phenomenon in the life of the
tra, gradual dying of Alexandrin-
skiy, theater Musical, Arrangement Department
organizes a number of chamber concerts for workers.
Every concert for the first time will go
in the Meeting Hall, “SrudZ Palace” & then
will cover all areas. ’)\„

Moscow. Opened. state so far
groundbreaking theater, 'Guiding, 'principle
the artistic work of this theater is
spiritual. connection with the revolution., Mostavdena
Shakespeare's play yy for measure."

AGver."In the theater "Renaissance" was played
drama “Struggle for Freedom”, They are preparing intensively
and staging of the play “Exiles”, in the hall
the tragedy of the International has been staged, a tragedy
V. Hugo “Angelo” is an example of a romantic
poetry ©, all its advantages and disadvantages
stalked. The only one in the city, truly
proletarian, theater. is Tedtr Tler-
Sky Mr. They staged the show “At the Dawn of the New”
peace*, depicting the great struggle. .from
October revolution to the present day. ,

Saratov Opened, popular popular drama theater
n comedy,

Tula^ In the works of the theater, in the Nikitskaya Vo-
reach it yourselfe, warm ‘participation’
peasants directly, that. called from the plow.

“Bryansk At the sugar factory there was a refurbishment
tionnan play “Vatsn and `Azel” “Na, Mal-
povsky factories in the village of Ivoy installed ‘modern

exchange. drama “Vosetazshie”.
SOMOLENOK. | Tez r Pro opened in August
professional "Union of Workers"
stva; it is called “Free Theatre”.
"Rybinsk. Students of the Leztra Studio
Proletkult presented “Bombs” in the 1st
action, op. A. V. Lunacharsky Three times

Slavipeyao'Bova-Korolevich" comedy, A nti-.

Monova. Rybinsky: Proletkul gy zadaleya
goal, soldier satisfying, “how, demand-
knowledge of theater, technology, and art
public requests worker sneeze, zevtr,. ‚‘giving
In addition, a large woman was invited from Moscow, co-
a troupe standing among the major forces with an ‘artist-
director, Vslkova) at the head. 5...

Yaroslavl. The performance took place in October
studio of the proletarian theater, performed, “Death
Hope." Young studio members found themselves in ru-
ki experienced, conscientious managers,
and, thanks to the enormous cost, energy and
skillful handling of the case, gave a good spec-
tackle. In the Torodek theater. was walking. historical
skaya comedy “Biryuk”..

Ryatka. At the correctional house opened
teutra; on the first evening a rally was organized at
which talked about setting up the contract
nykh in Soviet Russia..

Orsha. Experience of collective art, pro-
held at an evening organized by school officials
nerds. The participants of the evening were not
only the organizers, but also the spectators.
when protruding they explain it as an unaccustomed
preserve our new proletarian art
quality from everything anti-artistic,

Erogshtodt. The play “Two Brothers” is being staged
sailor Elishkin. With great success
in the reno-heroic theater pro-
Comrade's play was on. "NedriNIo TV "Vrasnye"
white."

x

ro A dDULTURA.

a and s

abijiya. the theater puts on these agi-
national play, Loktev “The Death of the Vet -
Army girl.”
‚ ‚Borovichi. , By the forces of the cavalry, ‚divi-
Zion, the play “Anarchist” was staged
/ and the staging "Tsarskaya and Yerasnaya. Bazaar-
ma-,." "Reception of U. Tubernator P. Ai
Executive Committeeoma“.

Congresses and conferences. _

en "Novgorod. Fourth. and
`Pre-professional' Unions, in a report on and
tourism and educational work. U a.
what is the main brake in construction
new life is the political EGR:
tiredness, lack of technical and pro-
professional knowledge and organizational
skills, 8

Conference on chemical `pro-
instructed thinking. ‘Board. ET:
create, durable UTU YNO: enlightener-
department...

mistletoe On July 1, the city-wide east
Sky conference. workers. metalheads.
July 24 1st citywide conference
„workers., ,

On September 18, I was the first to open. “wow-go-
clan conference of women E 18.

September United Conference:
nicknames Prosthetics, art, etc. `Departments
Public Education. and
Voronezh. From 15 sho .49" five; ‹
‚working, youth. on .
Shatsk., District village of Sho Vu,
zo ania..

„Vilieosk., 8 bullets open citywide
"conference" of the working class)
mia t; September. . All-mountain 1 ‘conference
tion of active communists. professional workers
ditch {a

“November 2, opened. onfere g predbta-
viteles. cultural and educational. to mis-
these external parts. bk

Rybinsk. June 9. sostbachasi -. iferbation
"Union of working youth"

Moscow. From 35 and? June nie a
urban. conference ‘union raooche elo-
decks. Accepted row, fashion: g d
©: White Guards. need x not’ Ubach` ‘stra
adults, but also young people, need it. enter
Among them was military training, 2) there was a search for
zan wish for 4 hours; just a working day,
to the rest, time. ‘use ovi › for
training. workers, masses, ‚and, ‚junior them MK
Armenians. xx

On November 15, it opened with travel around the workers’ country.-
Yansky theater. The main task from the congress
can be ‘considered: “identifying the peak of a new
theater created by the creativity of us and
peasant masses,

In December, ‘s’ezkh’ took place according to the folk
education. In the report of the People's Commissar,
according to the Enlightenment it is indicated that the goal.
educational work is not only
spreading literacy and utilitarian
technical knowledge, but most importantly. creation
holistic. of the universe,

Rchewing At the 4th meeting of the Council, the issue of
public education adopted a resolution on
broad _cultural and educational work: those

On October 6 the conference #yu\a took place

working youth.
No. 18—14

Ryazan. The 2nd Ryazal conference took place
sky, district of the All-Russian Union of Workers
Water transport.

On September 17, a ‘meeting of the cultural
tour and educational organizations of workers
and clubs in Ryazan. Deemed necessary
organize a day for adults, workers, etc. in general
evening for all workers. Titus school
steps.

Kazan. June 91” rise provincial
professional conference. ‘unions.

The provincial congress on the workers

_peasant theater. All ‘delegates’
knew that the basis for creating a healthy
dozhestvennogo` teztra` Must. to be"
women's involvement of broad People's zgass
as active participants. theatrical
no action. ,

Smolensk On June 28 the provincial

Congress! 'organization'. ‚rabiche-three-three mo-
lodges at

The first conference of the Communi-
` stic union! working youth.

Bryansk, At the first district conference
Communist Youth Unions
a resolution on broad cultural pro-
lighting work. |

August 26 and 28 preparatory work
naya conference for the congress for the sake of. peasants
sky theater. gee

Borovichi. Soetollae. conference pre-
founders of professional ‘Unions’. On
conference, two members were elected to the Pro-
Letkult, in addition, it was decided to create
Council at Proletkult, so that everyone
industrial professional union,
singled out from his environment ‘one’ representative
body, about 20 people in total. All cultural
educational work’ to be carried out in strict
contact with Proletkult:

Eagle. August 16th isoischiag conference
in the proletarian railway house
development of a general plan for cultural education
hard work in the district gee-
E a }

Elets. The conference took place on August 21

cities of cultural, educational and theater

` trawling organizations on the issue of construction - -

`proletarsk bodyWow. ‘tentra. at
Astratan. september 1st
congress of the Astrakhan E-kommunietiche-
some youth;
Samara. September 14, open: Leya Provincial
Congress of the Communist Youth Union.

PROLETARIAN. K CULTURE 91

Ironstadt.. On September 16 there was a public
city industrial conference
unions of Kronstadt. In the area of cultural
educational ‘work’ of the council of ‘unions, non-
despite everything, it doesn’t’ “USCHVzosv began
do.

Tver. `5`th 6 ‘September _passed in 1. hedgehog
Berne meeting of workers and commune workers.

Ivanovo-Voznesensk.. Provincial Congress’ fa-
factory-factory communists, issued a reso-
lution 0 need, as widely as possible

- develop cultural and educational work.

“Kineshma. On September 26, the 8th district took place
©’riding Union, communist youth
decks, In addition to the cultural-educational
noah i. political work was involved; what
cultural-pro-evangelical and political
the work is a single whole.

Zuya. 5. okhyairya the 1st district took place

congress of zi oroVAIARNY circles:

Simbirsk 1st provincial conference of the Co-
Yuza Konmunistinovey ‚youth. Simbir-
with her lips: Mr.

`Torotets. On October 25th there was a ‹teacher's

congress, which was distinguished by “greater
humanity, and content. (At the congress
a number of questions have been raised. culturally =enlighten-
telny: character, final work
the congress was dedicated to economic and

‘household, school and student issues.

Tver. In November, the Congress of Iroletar took place

Chinese writers. Up to 25 poets gathered and

etrists, mainly from the villages
and factories. The congress developed a statute ‘in general:

‘stva, it was decided to name the organization “Tverskoe
`Lite

aturno-Hu dozhestvennoe Obshchestvennoe-
neither Nikitin." At the 'Congress' it was said about 'not-

‘necessity of creation’ giving beginners pro-
` letarekhs: studio poets, vozchensivs mt. d..,

where. folk writers could develop themselves
satellite
bvlero-Dvimok. The 2nd conference took place

on out-of-school education.

‚Professional Conferences. `Unions
took place in Syzran, Nevele, Velikolutsk
and Chizhnem, Novgorod. r

OSaratul. On the 2nd district district - Kommu-
nistic Union. Working. Youth
the best way to clear things up
enlightenment called for the discovery. clubs,
clubs, courses and schools, both in the city and
and in the village.

Yartsevo. November 23rd origin nonferren-
Diya about youth.

`Babliography.

Ilya Sadofev. "Dimamo-stity". Edition
second. Proletiult, Tsetrograd, I 2. 72 pp.
Price 3 rub. 25 kopecks .

I. Sadofiev undoubtedly embraces the deficient
talent. daring; bold. enthusiastic,
but not balanced, not yet completely balanced
shared. Imitating” then ^U ilzen; then’ Not-

Krasov;“ the poet "is looking for" his "paths; and" more
says 'for' that; what's his “closer” in
Whitman. !

Poems of a non-Krason character,
for example, “Spring is coming”/rare and occasional.

“A mighty spring is coming,
Cheerful, ebullient,
Transparent; singing,
'Intoxicating, carrying-=

Delights, life and brought together“:
And &11 - monks 'brothers,
Walled and important, |
They gather on willows, |
The dreams are talking about something;
Screaming; screaming, screaming"
92

s? 5 what's in the echoing pepper. "Green noise"
Characteristic of I, Sadofiev’s poetry? Neither-
_hey, I. on the contrary, it’s enough for you to read
a few lines from the poems “In the Universe”,
or “Proletarian poets,” and you will immediately recognize
find the poet of storms and movement, guess the singer

"Poems. from, poems." ‚= -4

. They are responding to the coming ‘centuries of healing--
Proletarian writers, poets, bards,
They were sent away by the Tolis and Maseis; cute
to Mialiard company of arias
o
re ‘non-roaring factories; factories,
Smoky | ‘outskirts, 1slums and gorges,’
Dark mines, mines, subdungeons,
) 'Springs of field labor; "17
Barracks, ‘steamships and
They were sent out by the suburbs and towns; cities.
Like titans; ‘the slave’s shackles were broken,
They gave their word to the world;
New; winged avuchnoe; fire word:
Freedom, advice, all power to the working people...
And they etched themselves into history with blood. smoking
The most beautiful ‘of the beautiful ones,
Unprecedented in the other world.
Noemu from Ioem - a republic of councils.
“Any forerunners said:
and" rocks
And tread the path, oppressed; clean; clear
g To the Coming Poet,” ‹ ov

in these. nbeautiful lines and all that exists
ness. confident programs; emphasized-
“perky “ainamo-verses”,. not knowing co-
opinions, hesitations and retreats. This is

itself.nature. author. Even before the revolution, si-
“tsya in “Vresti”, he. wrote: s.

“But the gloomy prison, the mockery: and the shackles—

Train the spirit of “Poke over the enemy...
“Here, in the stones of the prophetic walls, silent

-YAZEKom
Buzzing: soyu HF 5by, ‚AGrolest, Freedom
t! 9900 Words. th

.* * . what? ® ` * * . r oka SII: 97 * - .

We hear the roar of the nagas, the rebellious bark -

(221 I'savon..
That’ Our Mouth “Heap of you go all this-
background...
“Rabelais fight” and... Victory “know” we; va: na-
NOYAMN:

And: quite psychologically. successor-
but... that the confidence "In going... for prison-
the reptile and subsequently crystallized

fell into
"The power of calling,
Battles are fun, 1%
A whirlwind of a blast. |)
I believe. joy“...
In one of the provincial magazines.

I. Sadofyev was described as a fu-
rista. The reviewer was shocked by the sti-
how "Circle, according to the zeilenya", and completely
seemed shallow to him. line: “in the eyes
green-red-blue. circles of lights." And between
so it is correct both logically and physiologically
gichesgi. In moments of strength. shock,
fatigue, before the man with his eyes closed

Calls very often come from multi-colored lights.

and namely’ irugi. Obviously; the reviewer does not

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

and make others believe

No. 1314

“I had to experience these conditions.. N
‘he attributed them to Futu Urism. No, and... Sa-
_Dofyev, not a futurist; true, there is a feeling in him
it is said to be mannerisms, but his poetry
full of specific social ‘content’
research; it is classist, communist, pro-

‹ letarian in, the best. sense. words, She dream-

capable of igniting the hearts of the working masses and movements
“Gas them to fight the old world. Futu-
Rizm, this is not just one ridiculous one. orma_s ear-
_greasy claims for something new, non-
_seen in the sense of form, but also different

ve lagging. intelligentsia 1 broadcast. to the world. t

„your word, to be a leader in the field of art
even the proletarian masses. But in the end
. in the end, futuriam,. almost allwhen ‘yes we don’t-
articulate sounds in gender;

zUle”Ele' Lel Li One'Kon Si. is #2
Onon Kari Ri Coasembly Moena Lezh’
Sabno Oratr Tulol: Koalibi ate
Tivo and 'Orene Aliya (op.

: '(Image) (Excl. 1 page 85).

Not so the poetry of I. Sadofiev. t „workers
masses of “souls burning with creativity”... Complete
faith in the triumph of their ideal, they believe

What are we

"On okelese and granite
Let’s create a smothered garden,”

And not only the masses, but also nature itself

_ participates in this solemn and creative
impulse, Labor ‘masses in blouses. bast shoes

and in greatcoats they march, V. of their ‘great ce-
whether; a

no teaching illuminates them;
I caresses: Since then
Naya children seolnaiain
Tenderly loving ‘children.:.
`Kisses; heals’ rapturously, 50
Owing to; ardently, ‘in love..;
re Brian their rebbe
Their movement - oh
He is delighted. ‹
"I am loud, and tear apart the children a.:

“Sigaya, with the creative ‘fire of smoldering years’
heritage," the poet sees, "How E
“Smelling of prayer, moss and mothballs, *
The 'old world' looks at the Sun like an eagle owl.
And “our global comrade-pro: nontariat”...
“He enters the world proudly, boldly and one by one.”
this one is worldwide. comrade feels sad
as one powerful team,

“We and you are one Body;
“You and We are inseparable.”...
“We are capable, we can do anything.”..
"Ilugom of collective thought
Let's raise the name again, open it up again,
``We will be intoxicated with marvelous delight. 1
`Better' than heaven; sun kratie*o
“We will reveal the unprecedented...
Dark pine needles conquering”
Collectively" miro ze y already
Consciousness. historical | worker roles
nlassa. and deep. convinced faith, in. tor-
the brutality of the proletariat is changing their attitude and
to the work itself. Previously, the buzzer called to la-
unwillingly, involuntarily. labor, my protya:-
vym. vricom. uniting workers, masses,
go to hell © capitalize the house

now
plant with another love:

the poet fell in love

“I fell in love with Auaehy Stremleti ped
drive

and. early gudok veprizyvik paradise

"Morning Prayer"; which;
“Tearing apart the intoxicating cover;
Invigorate drinks into responsively proud hearts:
Away, and into life, and’ rushes into the heights.”...
“The choir of beeps is the language of the universe,
"Anthem" Edanstvartimi = Labor” az.

r

and. these ‘passionate, enthusiastic lines,revealing elements of the proletarian in the images
skoy ideology, . proletarian, nulture,
make up for all the technical ‘shortcomings, Ah, they
yes.

and affect | in ‘irritability, from-
efficient poets, as already indicated above.
Sometimes in the midst of a poem,
shaking. folk poetry:

“Into the boundless shadow, to freedom, to the future,

To the green, to the flowery to the end.”

Repeating the preposition before -noun-
nym i. defined by his word rovesia
folk songs, epics and oh

The author does not always succeed
through “its repetition. Otrozha’ ‚heart
fights, anger bubbles; tnev) boils”, unsuccessful
because the verb okitatu does not enhance the action
sotvia, previously’ ‘expressed. verb kloko-
even, but it weakens it. "Olitic" is prozanchny and
boring repetitions’ viya zi’ thereby, and
thereby”; here ‘simple repetition of words-
va, without any “image; combinations are unacceptable
nrya: “copper, metal: pic”; times copper,
that means metal ones. —

There are unacceptable images: ..lu-,
bombarded by the sun's clouds,” or “thrown
viciously, with fire and smoke, roaring from steel
what shot ovzhnday Shot, “i.e. fire of the breath-
“mom” is not associated with an arrow, and indeed
ly. they are not made of lead...

We. could have noted... more’, a few
technically good places, but. nev, them,
business; worker poets are wonderful. I am aware of my
weakness in technique, p ‚o, AT ivigul a
what “forerunners”.... I them

If bourgeois, poets, ‘and. `relevant E
like to shrug their shoulders: is. ‘pleasure
rubbing your hands at the expense of various shortcomings
proletarian poetry, let them not forget
they are their own! first steps. . ‘ee a, la her bya
The throne is removed

Ekaterina nts tso-

t to the city of Mo-
Okwu - capital trawl,

and the grapes ripen:

It seems so, from time to time, it doesn’t change us
memory... Ode
In the near future, Gaia o letariat

will turn the world upside down, & this is “koro, ekoro’ su; children,‚

and will finally be freed ‘from’ ‘lai‘izda-
hating capitalism he will deal with everyone
little things; new; clear and vivid content
will give a new beautiful form:

And now we sincerely wishcustoms "Di-
namo-verses”, idn. a lot of things were done there.di-
urine And they’ll be able to do it.

V. Prlvnsny.

DOLE TAYAONAYA IRU Va, 0 No.

strength ‘thoughts’

“Judas, who lost his life in the struggle”

\

P. Bessalko. Alnazy of the East. C' pre-
catching 4. Lunacharsky. Let's draw 0: oh her.
Published? › Petrograd Soviet. 1919` 2. '54
Price 7.290. . I

I. Bessalko. known widely. ‘prole-
to the Tara masses, Kan historian - would! gopisvte you
labor movement, which gave ’ excellent
picture of a tooth of a century, time and interesting
study of departure from the labor movement
intelligentsia after the Russian resolution
1905.

Moreover, I arouse interest and attention"
“Diamonds of the East”, in which the author gives
filthy oriental tones and moods
a number of legends and sayings,

Read about it. “Shaha Kobadu”, “Chro-
Mono Hephaestus" or "Vet. "whom Manu", you
you just breathe the eastern air, you
just getting interested, fabulon, youNo-
beautiful and bright, not only are you fiddling around,
oriental patterned tongue, But hear,
enjoy and join the protest
people's ma6s 'against the 'vovh' oppressors and
p flax.

0% there is a figure in front of you. Judas,
Gawaonig. Om Nodvyal voselenie peru sala
these poor people. and, with escaping `0 And
hiding in the mountains. K, hordes

x theirs and
newer, of which two were crucified, and one was
lives in chains so as not to be recognized,
pulls out one eye. “And when the light of the kizvi
completely gone out of him. Judas, casting his eyes away
side, whispered: and and so-
crawled down, licking those who saw. him
they said: he is ugly and scary, his, gozo-

va—the head of Medusa, & black az. similar
evil | Scorpio, "prepared"
sting."

Great Manu. lucky, Powder ra-
bam) ‘to serve all crusts, “to eat, only
garlic ‘and onions’, drink water etish NZ
swamps and puddles in, traces left alive."
", the stung by a huge snake dies.
After his death he wandered. soul, pop-
gives into the body of a slave, murmurs” about “alive, liz-
gets caught up in injustice, & after the second
death, by the will of the gods, the soul of 'This, the evil one
Manu does not find a place for himself in yy
bodyyard dogs,

ah Kobada under the onslaught of nar xx masses
and passionate quest, “eternity RI to your
free food for the people. bSya in alliance with
nobles ‘conspire, . uprising, and
overthrows the revolution, father, Kobadu sa-
goes to jail. in “Zamon of the Past”. ''Don't-
moved by the Shah lying on the wet ground, bitterly
complaining about his fate. th. was naked
weak came out of the throat in a quiet whisper
words:

“Here is the reward I pay ‘FOR’ for moving him!”
Poor ambition and you, my dear!’ you
strived for eternity! you wanted to
my name was bright. like a 606 car.

My mind and my humble conscience, please,
dreamed in. secret; that you're going to be blasted
nations throughout the ages, you see; \ite, How ‘auls from-
laughed at me!

And that’s all for that. what I want t Che
let's say 'happy. I sowed and reaped
sadness and tears instead of laughter.

at
94. PROLETARIAN CULTURE; `` No. 13-44
A: out of fatigue, Kobda closed his eyes and fell silent, one feels the moving, living east, and-'
only. chain with a terrible clang, they are in rare harmony with the text. _
his body. | and the Book was published” correctly and beautifully: “And
Visions flashed through my mind. Sky of Persia; Lard: of course; that we recommend
kah clear azure; fast flowing Tiger, we blow this book to everyone who trembles
lush fields, shady gardens, blue in the distance - the heart is happy to see something new! ‘artistic
lush mountains, hot steppes, and valuables run along them; came out ‘from: nod ‘pen
“Tsass road” to VKtesiphon. Here is the job of the worker 2) Zoya |

There is a palace in it, large and beautiful. : A. IN, DRINK
& Kobada’s heart surged with a warm Ea.
blood, and the dream exclaimed: . y A. Soloviev (Inhuman).;; Flights". 1 Collection-

- My enemies, I will give you the throne, all the power ^ nick of poems. Galich. 1930. Edition
and wealth, but let me have the blessing of Radonich in return; Peasants and Krasnoyrmey-

the ability to see the sun, the sky, feel the warmth of the huts of the deputies. 127'p. Price 25 rub.

day and cool evening. walk on the earth: and We read it with great pleasure.”
hug your wives. I will consider myself, ny’ebornik. ‘The author discovered a lot of everyday life
the happiest person on earth. great observation, and depicted everything in Life

B’ it. time has scratched the old iron and even bright images; his poems are equal,
hinges, and the thick door of the dungeon is open, light and lava, the rhymes are free, although not
las. Mihr-Nerse stood before the Shah, his eyes sparkling with originality. And this is natural
ny sadrazam. Having bowed, he said in prostration, if we take into account how yes:

said the usual greeting to the king; The author benefited from his education. For the image
May the shah live forever! “More than once his mother tore his ears,” “lu-
In response to the words of the magnificently dressed one. the owner-painter drank and gave. "splash" everything,

The deputy only answered with a ringing chain. , to whomever he let go; and only Petrograde.
“Shah,” said Proud Mikhr-Nersa, “Kresty prison is a bright memory:

abolish the laws written by you in madness,
and Prince Khozroy will return your freedom and
throne x
— Change the laws? . never! - hot
answered Vobada, :ь :р

Sadrazam laughed: V.

- Oh madman, your laws are invalid*
us now. Forty Thousand Madmen and 'Them
The leader's corpses lie under the walls. Vtesi-

“Now I remember about: UN Crosses

O bright one: remembrance, .

I'm there. read, forget fear,

And supplemented your “education” / you
and an amazing mass of wonderful windows, ©’o
"Imyv". "Such. Cute" names g oo

en .Azchoice; the choice is great... and.)

“and Prison is my “education”

background. The country is pacified, e The author has the gift of humor, adding to the dream
| 5% ` o t ten ‹ y

- My unfortunate people! Cry together with the descendant, at times #6without completely ‘poisonous’
with me, - the Shah whispered: TA and vitosty, although not an admixture of ‘vulgarnobti’

t

“Tsar, be wise!” said the garden, “in pursuit of 3% with a mischievous word, “equality,
at once - one of yours. word . remorse. and manner. K. Ch INN e.oN‹ AIT

you will receive the throne and life, to whom. 'A. Soloviev, although he touches on ‘modern-
accustomed “those” moments ‘and tasks,’ and ‘sometimes even ours’

Kobada slowly answered: ^^". He is trying to expand them, as in, for example, st.and

- Not a single word of repentance! . -..1 Creation of “Native Theater” and “Light

- But why? Check! exclaimed, “it’s time,” “after all, to the proletarians of the modern-
Married to Sadraz, he cannot be considered a prominent poet.

'- Because I am sure of your powerlessness. His poetry is a transitional stage
to destroy what I have erected for proletarian sentiments. CHGuvetvuet-
eternity. | y and sya, ‘that’ he’ is not yet ‘infused’ with ‘psychology’

—, 0, madman! - shouted Mihr-Nersa and those who were brought up in the factory, among the machines and steel.

A: AD NT
“Electricity, steam were replaced: with...
The breast is calloused, where the spines are bent
To the Lords. slaves we played lights out, |
Here our slaves are only 'malnins'.

Hastily left the walls of the dungeon. Nravda, author’ internet, what’ >
high door. burial of the great VKobadu a blo bani,

with the “Computer of the Past” with rusty hinges

told him about eternity." in G

Wto will not feel the strength and beauty of

similar pictures? , C : t g
Essalko is the first of the proletarian nisa- But these thoughts are random, thrown by-

aunt ‘from ordinary topics’ of work. factory, in bulk, and most importantly: electricity: steam first

ziinism, etc. moved on to legends, spa- just

knowledge, expanding the circle of their images, in

which cast proletarian protest.

In the east Bessalko would not: n at all
literary attempt in this genre per- /
nay, - and yet the author coped with his
task-oriented

As in all other things, language, demons
“salko ‘simple; sustained. strict, but juicy and
Ourazen, No. ni r about

“Diamonds of the East” beautifully dances in white “Big Dol” with fences, fen-
vans by S. Widberg. take it in moderation; gatherings and round dances... the village
bathroom drawings, as in the stories themselves, “The Hole” ... the field, dew blows from the poems

“The free earth will be torn apart.
‘There will be peace. and other labor:
And it won't be useful
And} roe deer © harrow.,
“Where is the guy waving something?”
Yaunelkh bent over, living in a bunk.
Zemdyu, freely raspalneh.
Electricity and steam."
No. 13—4

Г < Г

AZ! od VIEW. Dan polychemicalitems, rey =
worked by the author in general and democratic
thennah, 60 'old standard p

vpezedukchevetunalborbul whether psojaf:

In his essay ‘the author points out: then,
Why creativity was greatly influenced by: Neither. -
Tiv; Nekrasov Rorky: This is: undoubtedly.
Motives of Gorky in the period of passion
they repeat the fears more than once. y) dy Okhoveva:
Nekrasov style? Istultael” of the citizen
sky verses. Nikitin’s influence is small”
noticeably; as far as the electronic worker can judge,
Ninita’s moods are not karmo at all
align with the free dreams of the author, who
writes to himself:

“My brother, a poet in” working: skin,

This verse is not a tear:

Without you and me in literature:

Poets-plaje at least B:
„Enough with bourgeois tastes. |
Worker's verse—=wrestler's blow:
Let Balmont and and repeat:
> "Wreath <warbey is the singer's destiny" $

Wei also acts from time to time and Nikitin-
heavenly sliminess, then only because it’s not
always intuitive acts of creativity control
lyrated by the proletarian consciousness of the author.

1’ noevi A.” Solovyov undoubtedly reflects
his vagrancy began: Alexey Niko-
Laevich. Solovyov, a’ simply’ `Alekhaz kae
condensed into autobiography; first 'teaching'
painting; then' he rode along and
but across the northern tubernia; looked in
to the Volga, bubbling; hooked, sinker+
va, worked" called waters; went through all the stages
unskilled labor,” then in (Poee’note-
whip a circle of village youth, 1to-
Ata St. “Crosses®”; azvotomi len, nor
chy front. and VU, kill

“Everywhere the author” observed: everywhere it was put on
topics for your creativity, but ^stray,
labor: zknansne gave him strict compliance
bathroom and psychology of industrial prole-
‘tariyau although ava they nannemen-
VICOM + nora 288%

„Authortporditeya: inilkoy ‚evoikhetikhov o

AY; I’m making my poems, please. he: in "after-
Yaovia, the property of the proletarian! society
and. proud of it; I'm proud, vakopoet-fly-by

military Neef

ry, who brought his own. ‘a piece of creativity.

into a common hive, proletarian: culture; iri-
Nevlimi. what I was able to draw was not in school
lahs and universities of bourgeois society.
ah, what. wow! itselfth life from! most
nature, from that which gives life and. will
theirs is dunta and the heart of fashion eevaenya
worker, peasant.”
The author knows; that “brothers: ovru and kri-
tics › proletarian and creative... will find
ebuchii" or "hitch", va zotsutzhvie. bright
artistic: images and: weak technique,
n'intemperance; and so on" joaito eo
The author believes; that they will fall: na`emeyu “sang-
henna. real artists,” but there aren’t any yet
necessary. create and explore: and ooenonu 5
Conscious of: ‘necessity. yourself? alive
‘close. connections between. worker-poets of i‘ra-
nerds. proletarian culture, being
‘v. ideologileskom. regarding us RN" KO
tectivistically, A. Solovyov's from

PROLE TARSKA `CULTURE, 95

souls bdatodor ao! WOW, THIS will beep at the do-
stoinetva ‘i. the shortcomings of his poems, so that
deeper zokhumAgieya over what was not before
noticed"

‘Only a worker-poet can sing about
to herself, unnoticed by her own elements
proletarian culture. It's quite 'wimpy'
a typical and significant feature. b |

This one: small. review for us, we would like:
would, direct. poetic talent m hu-
author's credit/credit for
modern would enjoy the new ones
productive: forms. and public
relationships, and not so much between. immediately feel-
the main groups of the old MPRA, the proletariat
about how much ‘in the life of the proletariat, how
creator and ioton nova. life, (new
culture, . -

A. Solovyov is a poet, in ‘ancient. ‘walls
determined, “It will be difficult to get up
to a new road. But let him do it
do. ‘raz`on tan deeply’ and’ sincerely Ho-
It doesn't matter if it's a glutton for culture.

4 } at Wu Pii.

tat |

Ferii n. y a Banner." Poems
from 1904 to 1910 200. measure? p.
The price is reasonable. . r

Poems, S. “PShmonina.’ from the side, artistic
personal And that's it. literary value
don't imagine. The pallor of the images, one-
image: pablon epithets from comparison
the limitations of experiences are immediately visible
to everyone who picks up this book:
but this screenshot by the author: more
not’ fromout of his thoughts and in his mood

‚pre-form. undoubtedly, nmeetin-

Teres,. like a book ‘reflecting’ a certain
new historical phase of the labor movement,
with its inherent divisors, E
left Zrrmaleniya,. H >

In the verses of S. PE Um Monina ‘the reader, of course,
will not erase 'motives. modern span" -
skoy, 1093 ‚ti, his last poems are marked
1910°. after all, S. Monin, as on-
standing roleplayer. ‘by instinct, my small
what a gift, foresaw the coming times

Give them some whining. xy-
dignified appearance. ›

The poet realizes that real life. all-
redn, and now it only burns. in his chest;
but came. time, the proletariat will overthrow the
ranbv-f: rewards "his world" of freedom
brotherhood and equality. GI: This U "expected"
gives slyyot kizni` B

“I love the rebellious masses,
y o. people who have come to life. '
together with the working class |
I'm in 'victory.' people:
life is happier Nolan:
As masey to bbbrba n] Bizavyaya,. :
Is nyami ‘ivleznaya ‘zolvn and’
The future fate, SHE“ >

Having found the goal. existing. author east er-
looks femininely and, in general: at, life,
happiness, not an evil net, -

“How much happiness and freedom

FKizn opened before me,
What about young people: years!

Execute the tedious paradise on earth.

©
<,

Joy. happiness without limit,

Joy, ‘echaetye: without borders’ drank
‘It’s hard to give in to life! /: I

And it’s on the shine of asses 0:

And the author goes wa, “the shine of the varnishes.” But to
no. fall, in .beesili, he is ANI! place 20-
winter, class... G HIS

Pete}

‚.I am the son of a worker nirodah and NR
Working class! I howl: Tsyan noi!

the author exclaims. To the proletarian. oddael. SShyo-
niniisvoy poetic dari panirne

“My gift was given to me by Herod”
To serve every people, her
And I get up in the working camp,
For the future freedom: YOU
"“EPovudha grabbed my viya, and m ZICHON
I will fight together with the masses, _ and
Until he 'won,'
I'll go. in the ‘ranks’ with ‘Babochiu’s own

How great is the author's commitment to v'eilu
Ralochego class! Thurs.

Sitting in a transit prison, he throws
the proud ones yell at their own, impudent, not Ayuniy

sabzha ryu Zonjus. y nomyy:

“Let go of all the Yan of me,
But I will fight but oh
I will go to ruin and death. glad:
H tbby In the ranks, workers. to be“...grandfather.

`‚ And Monin is an enthusiast, he forgot: his; yes
Level of progress personal life, his life: prize
it belongs › to the proletariat and is valuable; o-
stolnu, since ku ‘is a certain
by force in this war. koilek+

tive: 1111 yen

On. low pain. bed, bull-brain, date
in symor, worker, poet writes: and

I will die in the glow of burning forests

.& spring, brighter than mine,

‘I will die in the “struggle for the working people”,

‚_ But this goal will never die.

No” need No. ‘tacha, nickname

For those crushed by the thorn they will fade

gee ‘you need suffering, and grieving, and. -

and Danya and ‘flour’ only. Shchalky is not

77 zinyu, ‘916 ‘the sun will rise in the sky,

I know and ve in the working world.

’I’know that the “lucky warrior” Oh it,

“I know only ‘my ashes are in the grave’!

Moods in storga, joy, neva, and

struggle, in the ranks of the proletariat, not for a minute

do not leave the author's songs, although he; claimant

there were many difficult and overwhelming moments

tov public' and 'personal' yauyani:

And these songs; told to believe. ‘to the author, oh under-

zlushal ZreRol I U

“Noooo happiness, dikonanya, u k
I listened to Veeya, with
Songs of the tender, Zkurchanya U
I'm a doer. y, >: AE
Songs of happiness, rapture,
‚Understood jav viinbya day, oh
eeney stormy’ ie E
With a part of life for change 7“
May you be happy with freedom.
Yaislykhalt uzeolovyai t
(with them I: I fight with “nevagbda”,
Tan sound my life®

document; which:

L 13-14

But the poet is hardly right? It's not spring, I'm sorry -
The nightingale's blue hives are the only ones. Sa. movie
podelupgale {evendiesh happiness Their irenee
sifabrik‹ and factories razochiskaee. About. r"om:
so brightly and the faces say Zovryamizhine
eg aaevcity, “tozmie, imnkoopovavyyukno. 9.

Datgu of Shmonin himself will break through in time
different thoughts from the mood. In: searching
freedom. and wandering through the fields, but in bloom
din with swirling moths and crawling
ny meadows; he’ finds. Please feel free to chat and:
fight in ri aa

{1

He shu ‘mel.kah in the storm 'mb

‘He roared as if in a storm

I forgot 0 at the store, “*

I heard thunder in the city!
Jane, the air here is free,
The heights aiturmuet ‘ryadkozonn,)
"He! the uprising of the goy people
Born by revolution: chi

City: created ismosis! di 08

Forced convicts...

Day! half a half share

City eozdat on-2titan. Zone
“No, it’s not just freedom here...

’ Paradise and I found it here,

And kr: to the people _

8-1 And soda, came."

- But oh goro: after all, not / not book
permanent poets-workers. 11!
“Says / the author” of the work: They called him,
like the participation’ of everyday life®/ ‘and knows that it’s coming
hevoboda ‘for labor’ But! role. labor; him
social-organizing ‘function’; not dis-
concealed to the author: He “thinks that” the victory of the Iro-
Letariat ‘organizes not in pursuit of’ freedom
impulse" that "explosion" screams the curse -
y `nals removed: This, of course, is not ‘ltroletar-
some kind of point of view. Your victory! span-
riat puts on a systematic noliphic
and economic struggle, and neuna impulses
from inside out®. zotootAuzvya VR 1
Dachas are the most food-rich" the author mixes
often the people
’Eloudie ryaznyhovotsialnyh categories. it
These shortcomings, however, do not interfere
us ‘welcome this ebornik; oh how.
interesting, historical document lolny`
delight, impulse: in: part of the struggle, - dova”
cop ‘in which she’ will see herself
I inspire him: in:
Here (from ryrolnazh
duo 9 mzaniyu
yate5 to g eronzeaaaie
Wallpaper Ivan Proletkulta.. Ry
babe Ch 9197 Zetri Price ab rui plo
"Pochigi“you always experience ‘joy; when.
you take the magazine. Proletkutta" You feel it,
how’ young, still pale green; but''already
strong, breaks through the melted
snow to turn green and decorate.
land. bright; pleasing! herdcezcarpet: Lo
The old culture is crumbling, the old unity is perishing,
bourgeois ideology is withering away; timidly, ‘rob-.
not unnoticed, but at all times. poured life into<.
All new, fresh, proletarian ‘contain:
So I want to shout: “Comrade nah:
good’ ti” ‘vevelo ‘thread’ ia’Ievete’. Weight
coming, sunny, blooming caressing. And
want> about ve mu tea znvichiemene 1 a
always: (24 N

e9ya:

lyu IU, G fight

7 VOR

No. 13-14.

Here and now. `I'm leafing through the beaver'
Rybinsk Proletkult, I see and’ feel-`
I live like CH ‘rybin-.
sky worker, “what” he “thinks” how he lives,
what interests fill his life; and how.
all this breaks through the thickness of the bourgeoisie
Noah culture. Roy

The annual report talks about ‘great ini-
initiative, initiative, seriousness ra-,
bots and understanding' tasks. And how much’ love, °
real, deep love for me

It’s not for nothing that the studio members in the “Vnechatle-
", they write: at one time I thought about leaving \
studio. But I would be sorry to part with.
her. It's a pity because she gave me a lot
good. She brought me closer to ‘art.
stuyu, she opened me’ shul ‘to’ science, iya.
I gave my word that I will work in the studio until |
there will be an opportunity. The studio made it from me
a completely different person. Now I'
I feel like a completely different “Human”
com". Another to these E ZI
thoughts’ adds: we’ are ‘snorb’ somehow everything’
lived, and that I thought it was strange, ^
so ‘this is exactly what it was before’ “I’m not”
was so attached and and other’s 29-
comrades, ©’ with whom he conducted “evobod-,
new Time during Cheskolnih Tet, ‘and here
at some point in the month you have left.
and OJSC

“these studio people, having worked “Tod, you”
made by people who are aware that they are. pli, ‹
What should the bni ‘do next. "In general.
meeting of ''students'' on the day of "Roddovshchina"
teztralnoy studio 'they're fucked up' I follow:
final resolution: you

“Taking into account” the seriousness.
menta And 16 ‘difficulties’ that have to
to overcome in the present ‘time with advice’
authorities’ in’ g @ external a econo: ’
"mic" devastation, we. 'disciples of teztraya'
no studios, your thoughts, work, Nak (part'
general intense struggle’ for bocizlieti-’
chebkoe 'future, 'fully 'corresponding to the idea-
Lamas and plans for Soviet construction. '.

"We look at 'our' activities 'nyo 'ian' Na
easy ‘work, but how to do creative work}*
associated with persistent ‘hard work and’
deprivation. Crobesides; deeply’ ‘appreciating’
all6 ‘cares! about’ us ‘states, we n0‘606-"
We offer our own “initiative” to “you”
upon completion of the Studio at the disposal of the ‘Department’
People's Education and 'Proletkult'
for 'not saying 'obligatory' public'
work ‘but for purpose’ in the same way. '*^"”

Having finished in the past “todu” his and
Czech ‘work but’ the creation of our ‘first’
plays, we unanimously take on the 'future'
year to continue ‘our creative work’
create, 'thus 'thus, eo o, in the second"
part ‘which should reflect the “Great”
October, and in the third - the future social
stic world like. he is drawn in our
imagination. °\.' mk bathroom

"Long live the collective" a ‹

118; 03104389)

`Long live the Resolution Theater!'
doesn't the shaft really care? ‘heart
from these sweet ‘words that are born
not only in Rybinsk, but everywhere; po'veey'
Rossin, “are born, “grow, expand or”
like a ringing sound they rush ‘above’ the awakened one”

Proletarian culture No. 13-14.

PROLETARIAN "CULT TOUR\\

/
{ 97' )

} ou ъ o AT { AB rnas $}
srennoy, wake up, alarming ‘and worrying Zabovdaz-.
who want to go out on creative work.

Good articles and skillfully chosen topics
for the first ebornik. TG. Kalashnikov pi-.
talks about the “Problems of Proletkult”, ‘t. Volein
about’ “Tangles of Proletarian Culture” and’
t'A; 'Senate about OO'
work in ‘workers’ clubs’. Visible deep
Ro's side conviction and desire to convince
to deceive others. Simple, vital, theory
Spanna with business, with current work.

‘The poems are neither original nor their
form or any other aspect
extracts from the sea’ those verses with which
the provincial press is filled. But wa to’
stands out more clearly. play "Don't Go". :

The history of this Play is interesting. Teztral-
naya studio of the Rybinsk Proletkult, i-
started with improvisational TN on the topic: grief, joy,
dobDE, tyvv, etc. Sh. batbm Nerenye to nitro.
visage. kartihe th furnishings ‘in the picture
ono Zodie front OH momey for ry
Zoe Yb doo be in the UTB
zaza, rybochiy. Developing lema cartans,
IYNY nozblinunis mo Ivozhoetvo other’ ›
a lot of questions: Nwhy does a woman hold back?
worker; ‘in “Not! vice versa?’ 06” in relation to
girl and woman, how does a worker live
what about 6:6 and heresies? NyKHON iv bebprosvel-.
position, etc. Having discussed these issues, ›
We decided to write collectively.

Honoring others

he | waist K I
pebvsu. We divided the material into four parts; ,
each group of studio members thought about the price
riy; the first dramatization would be!8 663 o
then the characters began to ‘Speak
without any preliminary discussion,
speeches and remarks, then, when it’s time to come to light
something harmonious, they began to’ write down,’ zenisan-
new to discuss ‘and correct, and’ so on until then.
pbr, #6kyo did not radiate, embedded in collection -
nik esyo “Not E”
“The studios have gone far in their work 01”
themes of the picture, but they wanted to give H6 to the play'
other “names”, #6m more, what’ it is, =:
said 8’ in the preface to the play, ° btalb for.
them near and dear and 6 everything is connected with them
the process of their fadost’ collective ‘creation’
quality. py a Ch } kk C = {
The action is happening. On, re 'factory-
nogo breed, in' working yy 6 even before 1905
years Dauteya gives bright pictures of the volumetric relations
Sheniy AN
nia. workers and the beginning of their struggle. Iv 68 has
in rem otichoski household tones. No Nothing
naduManioto, “artificial,” that’s true.
Fuck it, Jacques in life itself, but 910 is one thing.
from the “Great merits” of every play. "Although
Ivbea and nv cover modern topics and.
mood, nevertheless’ ‘she is with’ Pleasure
action and “NoYaz” troschushchaeyya “everyone”
to the average worker: it is close and understandable to him..
What else can I say? Comrades from Rybinsk, you

moaned 'khbrosho. Cut the muvk, carry it
your proletarian fire, let it
shines brighter” and NN “still more purifying.
the flame of the Holy Creativity and the future.
culture is not. will illuminate the whole world with new light. .

Remember: “from a spark a flame will ignite.” A.
at the UN AGAIN we have succeeded in pro-
ayotvrekoy nulchura. ”' $ OV Pius. ©

from. 9% 7

ma no.
<

985 _ PROLETARIAN CULTURE)

<.

‚ Fritsche._ „“Itolet poetry”. Moscow,
19197. 113 EUR: Price 12 24/0.

Issues of overflight of your culture and in particular
the essence of proletarian poetry.attract attention
mavtse all, then, this way or | otherwise. involved
to cultural work, a book appeared
Lvov-Rogachevsky “Poetry of the new Russia”.
(“Ibety fields and city environs “ain”), in which
roy ‘lots of olagosilonic attention cadet-

the development of social society towards proletarian poets; ,
vyshna and kyishka tov, In, Fritsche, second edition
I didn’t notice this from the publishers,
10 would. There are four new ones in the book,
which the author characterizes,
una PAVANUE, modern proletarians
poets: A. 'Samobytnik, (Maltirov), ‚Vi-
Reardon. And Tastev" and U. T. Gerasimov, ‚ana-
pi ore ‘conditions: and development trends;
in BB eAOX - preface there is an attempt

About what proletarian poetry is. ,

First of all, we don’t understand why, ‘author

quitrent No. 0: I undoubtedly deserve it
serious attention from such poets as
and Sadofev, . A, Pomerania, B, Alekevndrov-.
skiy. and some others, They provide material
not ‘less and and valuable, . untimely
according to Myrev, with whom we. met.
Xia. c. nick. s

Review of the first edition of this work
V., Fritsche. given by us, in
Kuntura“, - therefore, this time we remain
new, only on a few selected
places having. important, ‚dazke is paramount-
new meaning..

‘Author. ‘asks the question: what is prole-
tara `Tsoedia? 'And he answers like this: “Prodetar-
Sky poetry is obviously poetry created
proletarians and, above all, industrialists
workers, firstly, those who,
while creating, they do not rip at the same time, with their own
class, © production secondly, such
who worked in factories and factories, &
then, breaking with their environment, they isolated themselves
into the intelligentsia of proletarian origin
niya, finally, can be attached to them
still though. and © ‘by some stretch, poets,
whose parents. were. proletarians m co-
p continued to live spiritually "Eno"

life, with the working class“,
“The given and ‘suffers one-sidedly-
ity ‘lays as a basis purely formal-

ny. origin mark. This is opium
We. We believe that the poetry of the worker is in no way
case cannot be proletarianif she
not permeated by class, communist
ideology. Don't we know that many
real workers who have not broken with production
watercourse, in the area, ‘political. and, economical
mic are reformists, liberal
lamas and even traitors. excluding possible
the power of appearance of various types of slags, -
mystics, futurists. etc. and among, prole-,
so many poets. In short, not everyone who came out
from under the worker's pen the very thing is
passing by. History, poetry, tribute
workers, far me, ‚history, proletarian
poetry, as it is commonly understood at this time
moment:

‚Strange. V. definition by V. Fritsche and. That;
that 'he, break .with O' connects,
to some extent with a break with one's

\

No. 4. „Proletarskaya.

class and even how, with; betrayal (to him., About
this was possible. ‘to make a fool of ourselves, Nazi
talistic society, and not in a transitional
moment towards “dialysis”, in front of dictatorship
of the proletariat, “when the last worker, Khan Yu
If only the function would not be fulfilled in Zozoenoch ra-
both: inevitably forced to merge with the res
letariat, . soaking,. his ideology, t

and the author’s thought: it’s not by chance.
On. on the last page of the book he. aschuicet:
workers “must stop profiting only if
these let [6):679 again Uhaut first of all
workers, proletarians; and only, on pre-,,
suge also creators-artists: replacing words“...
This is deeply untrue. To ‚ow; get along with
art, to be a true creator, about: pe-
Tarii must concentrate. on your own

At work, it is not limited only to leisure.

Skusblvo is a thin tool, it has a spine. slozk->
noisy and difficult. ‘work. ‘Just some leisure time here.
it is not enough to confine oneself to it - that means
proletarian, art. push back,
or wait for ‘unprecedented geniuses. Bourgeois-,
This poetry was not limited to the leisure time of Ne-.
what. to be afraid, about a, in art, .
and proletarian poets.

Comrade is right. V. Fritsche and in the fact that U. us.
there is no `proletarian poetry. Eat. Poets pro-.
petkult managed to give what in the poetry of ‘bur-..
The juissie had not yet existed. They were able tob,
580%, class. worldview not only! in’

civil wars, but also in some other places...

and Buck is deeply right, comrade. V., Fritsche,
when it indicates that. separate. poets, , N8-.
example, Gerasimov, “they’re going to futuristic school”
stov", "imperceptibly fall under "KNOWLEDGE,
bourgeois-intelligentsia poetry" "It is possible
it would be possible to show, using a number of examples, that,
this one, the captivity of the prodetarium ports. intelligent-
sk_y "poevie for them in, 'high: oh. LEVELS a
detrimental, Poetic mabtorodvo in pursuit,
behind the pretentiousness they begin, giving dazne in,.
the best of them, hell B: the grain of the proletarian,,
state of mind,” then inevitable. phenomenon; ,
This is a childhood disease that... we foresaw.,
Conversations of artistic development with 0-
temporary intelligentsia oh, unprepared-_
ties of the proletariat. and about the colossal, “difficult”,
aspects of poetic work, all aspects,
and - aspiration., to compare with the bourgeois.
poets who have earned a name for themselves, © 9
hand, these are the reasons for this r Chai Wo
as anyone understands, . ‘nose is temporary:
character. detariat, as a class, c. ‘interest-.
sah style and form, different, ‘trinkets: and
grimace, will not refuse. from.its content,
will find his new Chorka, RIN co.,
its content...

“As before, so now, we ‘recommend.
Comrade's book . “Fritch to everyone” who is interested
ov, zotrooami pronetirovaya her

}

r.

V. I, sn r: Ros: ›
media." Poets, today and, urban. onrain.. Book-
writers' publishing house. in "Moscow. t,: 9
et. 28.246, :

“Questions. proletarian. ‘literature cart.
awaken deep, interest as among. pro-.
letvriata, and among persons with sour grima-|
soi speaking 9 Soviet, vleeti, in KaB

I'm valochetokocchi
-No. 18-214

Both are in step with the proletariat. 'Po-
because "winnowing yoke '6 terolezerkoy toesia
we have nesoina nivy ‘inter. O”6unoy ‘second-
EN ‘ona abi" possible iv oo letarunatu
Ebforuate” and uzyaoolyat svov “VVorchestvo,
'surrounding him' with creativity circleheonnal-
these pears, on the other side of the opening
VobMoEno xya “Zabblutat kav” some
rivers tlbianotea Ibtnight onroyaezharevihNibmelyu and “ok” their ways ‘and ‘focus these
Omniamiie “in” above the bourgeois idea-
> “Book of Lvov-Rogacheveny” as ‘raz’ ired-“
“is of interest” from both ‘eyes of view!’
“The author ‘quite correctly’ notes the change
'scripted 'instructions' of the Readers 'from
‘people. 1Tosle’ grub. but ‘bright’ ‘assessments
creativity’ Koltsova, ‘ITevchenko; Nikitina
he is transitioning to 'Surikov' and); mainly
vom’ to the Surikovites, driving into their coffin’ confident
“with a nagging hand” nail after nail; ‘so’ I repent’ them
ideology a long time ago ‘turned over’ to ‘garbage’
box" of history; yes ‘and besides the boring, whining,
‘non-teaching songs-nerenez they’nothing’
‘they did, although they were tormented in the dark

gah of some heavy creativity. _
''Next' comes the analysis of Siroletarian poetry.
In the ‘part’ it is purely favgic; ‘non-eating
‘the content of workers’ poetry, ‘the author hardly
rhenium; ‘he’ quite’ successfully ‘chooses’ places
‘for illustrations, trying to ‘relief node-
‘draw out “your great joy and bright
hope”, “rejoiced with” the appearance” on
"scene of a whole group of tall-haired pibates"
lei, blood-tied © peasant woman and
proletarian intelligentsia," But 'zham 'where
"case O 0 ‘score; immediately revealed
‘bourgeois ‘criticism in’ preaching ‘refined-`
ness. 5 Damage to the artistic
“Considering the teaching of ChTush to be obsolete.
‘Kina, Geto’ ‘and other great masters’ again,
“the author wants to imitate” Brovbv, “Balmon
and 'Yarugim Odernieva or' 'manufactur-
“Bam vtona. or ‘mention human
"Language into ‘incomprehensible sounds: Erohea-
x ‘ of course, ‘ At 51 ° bovety But ‘ will depict
I'll find her alone, 075%
Gb values. Van' recognizes 'chichea-
ki L. RoRAChevsNogo, publinets
and ‘iritini from’, Proletarskaya ‘Kulvaulyn’ in
`Ibkuseva profa you, even exist-
28.0: poetry 16 more ulenuii yourself: & bbrusya
‘solve big’ complex issues!’ And then we press
‘oSAATim ‘rengital’ 0 erase
acteriotine, for example, V. Ki-
chatel, "bourgeois
‘commitment alien
ture“, oto chit
Vichiny". Not brain-dead
“L Vogachevenim and
in’ which is
g zputsv`^ Ch"rodetar-

‘ne will

body from knyya

absolutely
As a matter of transporting rhenium

it's in it

in obi praviyayini assessment
Well G. {m $2} and |
Xx peasant poets and pro-
big noisy guys, . O
; < gooah 4 {331 o Ge _ 7: th
A bibliography is included at the end of the book
„in which „by the way. are recommended
books based on the poem: “Onyty” and “Science”
s # 1 7 t: m. 2 y * |. 118
about verse" by V. Bryusov, We consider these books

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

This is the second form of murder.

9599
“absolutely? harmful,” onobihvii 7 KILL
'all8o6' starting to grumble: 08° r
according to niga Monet ime Osusnoe ‘withering “tako”
soda omu Cho 'author in 'eveh o Zivv and i-

“zetent” judgments are covered by war-
`ibietekimiiliazhemu ‘who although’ AYab Ho
wai dineo n him, but’‘nonynetinim’ timealg,
‘code ‘goes’ nromoved ‘torn’ ‘carriage-
niy*, can Lnoevono ‘briefly’ drive in” with
Io m hnarvvyaleno O: miocheoi
“In general, the book” L: about the horned “and disgraced”
NOT 'god' material, $2019 and

developed from a point of view alien to us.
and p. Ru oh,
-$ tednotfoh em oo g whip

2 izEm: Vandervelde. ''Oocialization
‘stvo’/”Izd.7 Petrogradek-go “Soviets Petrograd.
Works "Vandervelde has long been known" to Rue-
has stood its ground with the reading public” 8
several publications. At this moment she
somewhat ‘outdated’, as if ‘from the very beginning’ of its
the approach to the issue is too narrow; after all
‘so’etorons! factual material; but’ in%6-
utvi’ she ‘represents a deep ‘interve,’ and
separate 'snoimi' places‘ Maybe “even
the story was used’ in defense of our products
`cult-accurate' arena: “And about
“The author is convinced “that in the future there will be no
‘more material ‘division of labor into physical’ and
marked" that' "in the future of society
Skolaekzhivistyacheskaya, or kommutistyacheskaya
organization, ‘in which Part of the ‘working

‘forks’ will be dedicated exclusively to in-

`new. And there you go, belts
combine hard labor with physical work,
Arts) © ‘craft, m
p 866 this “will be” Obvya,
idbology, imbued with p.o
can solve the following problem
no peace, because they have it

calf, nuchal. ini khudoznvel-
I willshy ‘ineell ‚us
'than '50 'revny;
for UTS - ё and [3 >.
Zoloviiy, passed the flight of rekby z0ya6:
one of the “forms of Dependency”, which “Valytgo

cannot be avoided, - “dependent: d

direct or indirect ‘influence Which is not
inevitably leaves its mark on the artist.
And this dependence, for single St. 6 96-
‘niyami, makes an artist from the bourgeoisie
tslabeov alien to the worldview }; s
zayuchyeya ktassa BUT mu then
“production for the sake of profit, and the resulting
_from such proaavodetva odds sobkhveni, #7
have a depressing and deforming effect on
‘nature and on man, and on the will of his own,
according to need, for worse

0 environment,

".

abuse of man and nature."

And if so, then we need to create
conditions ‘under which, food supply could. would
Unleash your spiritual powers, Mr.
this. organize a dance to prolbötarpat

was out of’ influence from other groups and classes

Societies, especially, will fade away. hides-
"University, Naronena Una Ny a
they solve these problems, “At, opened. NURSOV

People's University, - andisheg_ Funder-
velde,—at the first sessions of the ‘department and
a.

*

you can see mainly the ‘mass’

7
©4600

barrels. But just for a while. public
decreases in number. or, changes according to
composition. People with calloused hands begin
It’s rare to come across one. Their place is taken
teachers, office workers, petty people, bourgeois - everyone
listeners and spectators, for whom,
“Yes, very well.” useful, aesthetic, image
calling; but their very presence caught
“influencing the organizers to give their
programs have a somewhat special character-
ter, repels the simple, the workers.” Inte-
resna brought, trinity x Ur VOEr Na-
„home university, „Professional
its composition was expressed as follows: 20/) workers, 25%/,
employees, 10%, small traders, 200/, participants
diyzhsya,, 103 prestasidadai about the diredated
‹professions,, 5%. I will give and Nm all the others, B
`of our Soviet Russia percentage
tion, approximately, is hakovo, ‘and zes-
Actually, 9 to 20 workers are lost among
“The Second does not dwell on this question,
how, given the opportunity to the proletariattwist
yourself in the field of art, but hardly. etoli
it would be a itch in the bourgeois world, but... but he
“by mouth, Camille Laumonier definitely, az-
_professionalism shines, )

“As for literature, he said, one
"Wait for E. Lemonnier, then we need to come to terms with
the thought that it is possible to die with her without having
some kind of activity, some kind. pr
profession, craft or newspaper. work. But
You can only do well what you want
devoting all your time, everything. your strength.
The works of a man waiting for the holiday
nickname for ‘to draw or, write,
always reek of amateurism, amateurism
‚stvom“. And from himself, Vandervelde adds:
“The writer can still look forward to Sunday,
but the plastic arts include
'some element of 'craft' they require
physical effort, material, worries,
that hinder the artist. engage
other work for the purpose of earning money"
In an established communist -region
in society, when necessary, working hours
reduced to a minimum, the artist has
children have enough time to devote
to his art, but now, in the transition-
new time when nutrition issues are
in the most acute way, and the money is still in play
a very, very serious role, studio members
Proletkult must be given the opportunity to
to work face to face, and not on holidays, between
other than during rest hours. Otherwise, nothing serious -
nothing will come of the work that has begun. b

We must firmly remember that in the future
all art will be “art for everyone,
which will be our daily spiritual bread
life, and it by the art of ‘few, subject-
volume of luxury." And this bread must be given, ho-
well baked. s

With the exception of certain places the book.

Well translated and easy to read.
at Pav. Lebedev. _

P. Bessalko and F. Kalinin. ;,TProblems
proletarian fraud." Paths and achievements
proletarian culture in the coverage of workers
writers. Ed. Antey. St. Petersburg, 1920, 79 pages.

|954 g

‚nostnost‚(vureiv ours, p. 14). I.

No. 18—14

and

pWhen you work in. the thickest
things are always extremely difficult to look back on

„back and capecarefully walk the path that

passed during work. And such a possibility
ness. gives us this collection of articles. now

_our dead ones. comrades. Exactly. then

that 06% of them have already left us gives a special
The value of the collection, since it became its own
kind. historical document, Proletaria-
Authorities are alien to them, and not... because we are inte-
resuming, articles. parsed. collection that
‘their authors are among the leaders of this
movement, Ned" for. for us these are the notes of the rank and file
our protest movement. Let's come over
already, with this one. points of view on issues that
‹worried our comrades, and.we. we'll see
“In many ways, these questions are still acute,
Sometimes it’s even more acute now. before us. „
“They talk about what a proletarian is.”
sky. culture, outline ways to identify it
“and at the same time, they raise the question of social
The meaning of ideology. We don't. deny, th-
“says Comrade Bessalvo, but we believe that the bore-
“Jouise culture” must. be overcome.
This, overcoming - with, incidental, inevitable
cleansing - which we inherited
rubbish, both comrades thought through studying
research, and critical processing of what is being studied.
It's time. this preparatory period
.iv "moment of creativity before every torment-
Indeed, there is a question. of 'rm and content
ov, art, and accordingly, the authors decide this
question... Bessalko says. (p. 9) what we
We don’t know yet. forms, the future of art.
We only know that it is a form. closely related to
content, where from (p. 18); requirement for
to the aspiring proletarian writer—not
tell him about the form, but demand that he
content imbued with class confidence
T. Kalinin
(page 65). argues that the search for a new form
can only go through content. But
something, just over the form so many people stumble
talents, and so Comrade Kalinin is trying to open
fetishism of form arising from the gaze,
that the question of art is par excellence
question of form (page 68). So’ like mastery
“the form and revelation of her fetishism is given
only with great difficulty, then in this labor
ness and colorthe reason for capitulation to
old bourgeois literary form of multi-
some of the most talented prode-
Russian writers (p. 64). Revealing this
God, the idol of form, brings both pisats
lei in a unanimous decision that teniy,
talent is only hard work and for
creating a work fragrant with aro-
obscenities, it is necessary to spill badly
Smelling sweat (Bessalko 28 pages...

'This is why they deny the unconscious-
ity or pure intuitiveness of creativity.
Vessalka also has an interesting one. the image of this
as if unconsciousness - clock striking -
this is an apparent expectation, but before
the battle took both the plant and 59 minutes, elapsed
after the last battle. Kalinin, this is the most
the more interesting pages of his articles remain
is generally poured into the process of creativity and
indicates the meaning of the subconscious
experiences, to the meaning strictly and firmly
impacted impressions of his personal and
113—114

and at the same time, the life of the class, parish
goes absolutely right to that thought; what
intellectuals can understand the proletarian,
may therefore also be his political
and scientific leaders, but to feel
the life of a proletarian without going through it. prepare
private class school. (childhood, work),
cannot: And the examples given by ‘him are extremely
interesting, - Koltsov, first and foremost. second
period when, despite the influence of Belin-
sky and other intellectuals, creativity
Koltsova ‘fell. I. is especially valuable, recalled
Gorky's attempts to create the image of a Russian
industrial proletarian. Russian tramp,
Russian artisan - craftsman‚ (succeeded
Gorky, a. instead. industrial workers
It turned out to be a sneeze, according to Gorky himself.
- delicious gingerbread (given by Stroev in his
brochure about AI (in and

And being industrial itself. workers,
Mr. Kalinin took into account the cultural values perfectly
tour! type, its ‘delaying, meaning,
(the image of a French worker is very successful
with his love for the mirror cabinet
Russian rent), and from here: he called for ire-
possession of consciousness in creativity
but new cooltures once a. areas of creativity
all the words were obscured by the bourgeoisie
about the suddenness, the radiance of cultural
‘creativity, all the mysterious spirits, ‘which
have long been expelled from! technology. I. ours’
Dacha - understand this and do the appropriate
conclusions,

We briefly touched on a number of topics,
touched.in this collection; Many: extremely
are still vital today, so it’s hot
We recommend that all Proletkult members learn
come to terms with what we thought about these issues
sah our deceased comrades! is like shit-
wanted to solve them. (A. thinking about “these questions”
requests, checking them. in our practice and
will be our best memory of them.

in St; Vrivtsov,

* L } 1%

R. Pelshe, “Morals and art of the French”
koy revolution". All-Russian Soviet. Mroletlulta.
State Publish S.-P=B. 19, 58. pp. Price 12. rub.

Anyone familiar with the French re-
revolution of 1789 cannot help but be amazed by
‹moving; which she brought into all life
French: 'From the world of gallant omarquises and
‘Marquis, who occasionally allowed himself to play
Pastorani in the style of Jean-Jacques, France from
new as if resurrected from the old antique
republic. Instead of pampering;: instead of
sophistication begins to emerge equal to
quality and severity, & along with them and pro-
hundred. A new ''decency is being created; nbwoe
mandatory ` treatment. citizens. between
both s. obligatory you”, fixed yes-
or special. by decree. And spirit. revolutions
even if bourgeois; ‘the whole life is ironic,
starting with everyday details: France
truly 'reborn. I. art! not
may not be carried away by the general! with the current. life,
especially’ this one. mobile 'and sociable-
The French people are the Kavim. and
we see that ‘the muses will see the icy Char-
us and interfere in the thick of life: the Choets,
playwrights, painters, sculptors,
take one position or another in litigation

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

$101

bourgeoisie ‚with feudalism. Artists share
on. black and red ‘squadron,’ and ‘joined’
they are drinking. into the civil ‘struggle ›democratic
skiy. parterre and: feudal lodges, and
it often comes to this. potassowok (one hundred 8V.

Work: T. Pelsha, based on personal

‹research in Parisian museums and libraries

tekah, provides extensive and rich material
for thinking about the class significance of using
arts during the revolution, She’ on a number
examples! and8shows how great
a tool. class struggle 'may appear
theater or plastic; And these are living Parisians
felt: Registered so far" 2887
songs created in Charizh: the days of heyday
revolution, ‘after the abolition of the theater! mono-
polyi is created in! Paris '18 theatres,'
residents in Narizhelv at that time were ‘only
500 thousand: “Studying even ‘just one’ reper-
- we can make up tuarys! get a picture of the progress
revolutionary, - first" playwrights try
reconcile the evil people with the king, when will the
her treason is weaponizing the king; is suggested ‘not-

-hatred first kotyraniu and then ik o sa-

to my tyrant And ‘his’ execution is glorified. B
blossoming" of the revolution and everything is placed higher
civic" virtues) but" here after
Ek Thermidor ‘the revolution is on the wane -
the bourgeois is satisfied: with what he acquired and wants: it

- to secure you with himself, - seeks personal life and

there are praises of republican virtue -

ii. moves on to the yupvologiya of businessmen. Also

and in the figurative. art; David. ‘and
him. ‘comrades-in-arms leaving’ the Academy, ‘foundations-
they celebrate the commune's art and glorify the Brutes and
Maratov, and end with praise of the revolutionary
EARLY for Napoleon.

ex Telshe ‘is right when’ he says; what am I studying?
appreciation of the revolutionary art of the late 18th century
ost, must gvaenit; illuminate! much in

because of what we do’ in the art of the twentieth century.

Identification. the latter and contributes to it
book. o. +

Art. Krivtsov:

‚‚Artistic life“. ’ Bulletins
artistic: sections Nar. Com: Shroe; 76 1.
December 1919 53 pp.`20 rub. s

‚Fine art‘. Magazine
079. Isobtaz. Art. Naf. Nom. Ifrogv. "No.
1919‚ Price: not: specified.

Both publications have the same interest ‘that
are the first ‘information bulletin’
what it does and intends to do. xy-
dozhestvennaya" section Nar. Com" Prosv. in
artistic matter! sunnutrition and form-
of the wider people's labor force. wt. Unfortunately! it must be noted that neither
no other magazine. have. certain
‘point of view. “Everything for the people and through the people”
this is now a ‘common place, we need to show the con-
-correctly: principles and ways of the future
construction and =

Ok, the article by Comrade A. Luka always stands out
Zcharsky. In "Artistic Life" he
for the teaching of many: he scourges those who mnt,
-the knowledge of 'judgment' subordinates it to its form.
write which ones. displacing, what carli-
seem to be: tez ‘who,’ turning over this fold
-Ghanaian and Guzbeermen are the second
1702

temples of the deity and poems;) symphonies - do -
ok, 110’ that’s it. This: uniereeno only ›eva
-outside beauty and what the content is really-
ness; ion nod to'art, how
shanovuyu will have it" oh, Ievusstlo "not to eat
akelidia is nitrogen: seiya: When’ schiznB is powerful,
-she’ makes” the art of the idol; and the instrument
hiding oneself, everything’for life for (its ‘development: C
This: tigohrvih seeing special ‘meaning
iriobretaut. content of art" and "Wee it
old stuff” is true, but: you have to repeat 8x
kao her": denritmatogo 1ezh 'zayguta shisheya
video of art as an end in itself/In ‘kozgtse
comrades Ah Lunacharevnisnoduton imaginary
esvoiho opponents; about which they supposedly want
obscure: from the ‘people of Tigantekoe’ treasure
"'nayulediil shroptogo*: | Ninto' of this 'short-
things seem to obscure; dispute: ‘idea volume 9; how
to master this: with the bourgeois ‘in advance,
in cavoynggra use ‘himandrunning! times-
nrogalolceto influence; and completely subordinate" you
-dachas organizing a new life. Tiiin
o Selfish reflections: they irritate us
at times '›chieto'. informational! country
‘nitsy: Musical! department! Nar. Vyum. Pros.
“without pride I announce that” it was necessary
give the people the opportunity to listen to everything
the best that was created in the ‘area’ of im-
languages." And for this purpose they were organized
chamber; choral} and symphonic concerts
certs; To us! good! and ‘it is known that’ these
the concerts were not available to the wider public! mass
visited by the “people” very little
have"'relationship with' the proletariat, "not
counting endlessly; receiving zhatovaltya ‘in’ s0-
-vetsky institutions! and YYRNV: in Chotvay
More interesting. „Imaginatedg5; rey:
Stub Etotoran theoretical, trying
Zotyr zdatvi toast with it” kowing: here it is
eburak htahunizit here ontdenaiy: ‘individualvliam ti
„razia d. Necessary op’mezhiten; viko narstaieva,
go sopaya ‘accurately arevyaos! vutpreznttilenoy
coloring; the essence of which the reader is better
fight on '. volume' fine
art, examples of which are given in the Etra-
Imahuhuhrnayvienk_ panyoatezhodhXx,.
The authors of the articles of the ‘organization’ on categorical ‘tro-
Niku Pafov, 40 lyalob ‚ intelligible,
at least. and verbose—sometimes referring to
Marzhenzm’ votororo not ks Shyta-
"You're going to kill other people" 2:
These failures haunt and) individual
-authors and ‘veyuredaktsiyu’Their helplessness
‘it feels like something from the first one.‹ lad Potalvi
xOtledvatsii“eaeomen.in 1
and Izop can believe the ‘respected’ editors,
xo oresretics! ‘troletariat,’›possessing
‘high competence’ in. issues of social
nyhiu are unable to define the ideas of art
Gotvennotgo' otrozielksva 'proletariat; Foot
came out the point of production: art
677 social issues; unknown
ss ‘corresponding to Markenetskaya! literature
swarm and even inattention to the current situation,
second” ‚the proletariat and lags behind its (co-
‘holding! and living with the bourgeoisie’
‘Ziye in sophisticated and shaped notes 70:
1! Totally tutcheet) I don’t understand Feb.
ejkdeniya;/ that' propetarocoetesstvo-=vie-
‘class art, tThis abourdel New
art<proletarian art--class-

PA AT

‚ OK

‚TROLETARIAN‘CULTURE,

\ 61334

- everything that tempts you will cease to be so,

when the ‘proletariat’ disappears; ‘totdao isnus-
"stvo" will become, in old Lazy language,
universal human vu ru a
‹ е › к; OV. N
‘At the same time, the old age declares’ for kvass
'negotechenyu yampreevionieg'g, 'as well as
Zfuturiegiyai zinikeras honey zone: Pitlui eje
add: unaiy blasphemy and Ealtii pro-
and introduce you, zotoreyerodniyev from’snew
worldviews and ‘which are polar to our topic’
ovvemu` oldmuzi ‘are incompatible with him’.
oThis is clearly not true. Distant! samples like
times testify, ‘91:0: we and the children
falling apart. bourgeoisie: 5
'Since the image-makers' 'crossed the children's
Chinese combination of cubes; ” square-
kov! and others. geometric figure theo-
“the rheticists” of poetry declare: “everything is art,
'mastery-and'art, as pezto vrsi-
‘your idleness’ philistinism. p@algoe
“I consider the highest” moments of “service”
This is the talk of the Beaslov; when through the company be-
gut ‘crazy words: they are not occupied by the mind, nor
by reason: not ‘comprehensible’... (“Isotana” ‹case-
- zheitnel` (i.e., poet) appears to Bogomutanim
mysterious' and incomprehensible I will stop
natural' particle of creative Vogue*. And
in this servant begins the ‘great life’
turgia“/He: begins ‘her’ sound in: ‚ke-
us expressing “his invincibility again)

``Ulo, Ele Lol Lee ’One Koi’ Sin AVK
Onon Kori, Ri Coasembly Moena. Lo.

This is where the poet exhausts his “highest
some action “to happiness; How! aware, Avigor
articles) etiowords ‘cannot be typed, and no one
will not be able to give cash to him. But we won't...
TyatiVaik SN Zltielj reviews by Ioloy ntawi az

Am I Veli? Chayalchaleln will ask: this linleresen
magazine? ‘we will resolutely reveal the truthfulness,
and most importantly, poetic: Veyakiyi proletariau co-
The third one is still confused about the fact that sunrema-
Tists, Cubists and all sorts of futuists -
belching" of the old. '‚mirazvayaziti odolur al,
will immediately understand how hard it is to work
tal snad\ development o ‘evbet\” - `prolezarskoto
tempted tefootkrautnmonany Yanivo 8.

1 "Unfortunately Murnal" was desperate for her -
‘Irienoya chalk ibutainy no doubt
in ‘limited quantities; So) atozado
broad layers: trudelchau tala, I won’t reach it and
no, get rid of it
telunait: tiv eo ‚shading:
my len mon oto ozhtevo mo9d
let's go to te ybiratn jeerobaVuaonolou

tag in: atoyuzyuto 0835

V. eo, “Nautaso: etiyo Metlikag and
Rhythmics: Publishing House M; 191 90 Price 0: rub.
—xThis is topnennauzyaoel asshedovenand not G Prazhk-
tical guidance of the saint’s versification. This
‚scientific, scholastic, ‹spiced emptiness
Without ev terminology, u‘Avniri

Without going into it! We will confirm in detail
eee visual atrimers. he suaok

$) B; Bryusov anishetii unauva. about the delivery of phrases-
1Delnetoyat ina zoravlivitelnayag igochetnuao®.
-\We affirm science” ‘o. verse metis Net
rb guides children to eznhoslo-
‘get married |separate attempts: Neva Mosta-
to solve the problem’ verses fades

‹

No. 134

‚2) “Comparative, verse .. while-
vaegu.., 1, >

Comparative. there is no verse; therefore
he-nothing. can show. But... if
would even. she existed, tho. I couldn't
show what V Vryu attributes to her.
owls seem to exist
terms: metric, based on. soche-
tanning of syllables. long and short, tonic,
based on a combination of syllables. drums and
no drums; spllabic, based on
quantities", syllables in a verse", etc.

Versification is a special process | view
speech, but, process, not. may.be based
account. anything, counting. is happening. after, _
yes. result, process, etc. no way, the most"
process, cannot justify it.

3) Having finished with. equal verses,
V. Bryusov addresses “E stikhology”, rus
skaya poetry. m

Point out that in Russian poetry there are
four. systems of versification, V. Bryusov.
together with. thus warns that. main:
subject. his research will only be

one of them, tonic, and lies

I'm Lomonosov,

`In this. case we have, ' deal! with research
vaniyam. not Russian verse, but only with one
its variety, with a verse that,
wrote and continue to write intellectuals
skies. poets. from, Lomonosov, to.nalshikh. days.

If only V. Bryusov had argued that it was
this verse is most characteristic of Fussa
subzia, then limiting the scope of research
would be ‘at least somewhat justified, But
V. Bryusov innocently mumbles: “to Ruesky
peculiar to the language, those. systems, poetry
the ideas that are accepted in it.” Thus
strange, unacceptable in scientific research
vaniya biastie to one piece of material
remains unjustified

The reasons for this addiction are clear.

He is an intellectual, everyone
connected by their poetic skills
with the traditions of the Lomonosov school; and, not-
It's amazing what he is about. her, oh
the tonic system she created ›verse-
addition wants to talk. Why, then?
give out your notes about certain phenomena-*
studies of the Russian language for the “science” of Russian,
verse.

4) Next Bryusov moves on to his favorite
their literary language.

Giving a general definition of verse, V. Bru-
Sov says: “verse is an element of rhythmic
language speech, which in itself can be
rhythmic and non-rhythmic." Under the verse
here, of course, apparently, poetic
string; and rhythm is attributed to
line, then a combination of lines But this is not
one and the same; there are two completely different
nykh nonimasia of rhythm. Meanwhile, V. Bru-
owl expresses his thought without noticing
the contradiction hidden in it. Cause
again, clear. V. Bryusov talks about met-
ric verse that he represents
to yourself as a combination of feet, and the foot as a _combination-
the formation of syllables, i.e. understands rhythm as a combination
melting of elements; but for more scientific
gives importance to private teaching, appearance.

common law, go And

PROLETAVSKAYAKULTURAL

system, quiet-and

5) Having paid tribute to science, V. Bryusov finally
begins in tomic verse: Vetati,
verse, oh which: says. V. Bryusov, not that
nic; | & syllabic; since

103.

diets: netroniz © Ia quantity

slots
“In Russian literary verse everything
lines are metric, (c) therefore, rhythm-

cute, he says. V. Bryusov. His’ ritual
new ozav sit. from. meters. Ciao! the same"
meter “The meter is formed by a certain juicy
feet”, stiffening and combination
Taniemrelov and Nonikotob

Hence the conclusion; meter! a definition is formed

long ‘combination: syllables..

`Vanaya. same ria between. in verse. and meter?

No. And, indeed; in' 'further

V., Bryuchev, does not ‘distinguish’ the verse at all:

from meter; writes ustih“la in ekobki umetr“
(smetr.18). But then what happens?

RhythmicallyThe existence of the verse depends. from: meter: Meter:

and the verse is the same. Means; rhythmicity

the verse depends on. the verse itself. > Watering not=:

confusion. Rose 19.8
But... this is not yet. All. t ‘provisical
the line also ‘consists of. certain

number of syllables, Why zhepgon not rit-!

machna,., Maybe this will be said
distant Let's watch: em ent

-6). Then it says the following: “foot

there is a combination in: a certain ‹sequential

values of stressed and unstressed syllables**

But more clearly further, on page e12 it turns out
what. there are feet ‘high, .
some are percussive and low; consisting of only
unstressed; that there is no way with each other
knits oso tan |

Then, they say, yato. meter (read ry

there is a stop in a certain area

"continuity", but there is a mixed meter,
formed by feet in arbitrary no-
sequences.

In a word, complete freedom of action and we
we can safely say that the saying
“Stopping is strictly prohibited”
quite rhythmically, presenting itself as a funny
shady. ‘meter consisting of a combination of apa-
pesta, iambic, amphibrach and anapesta with dactyl

`ichbek ending, or from pesnat

retiago, chorea, chorea and anapest, or...
etc. until you get tired of it.

We could end here; far-
the most advanced thoughts of V. Bryusov only
bring to an absurd end the main non-
I'll get confused. But for complete proof
need to stop at two more
“exercises”: in exercise 0b inostasis, and in
teaching lipometry and perimetry.

7) “Hypostasis,” teaches V. Bryusov, for-
exchange in meter (read in verse) of one foot
another."

But, we are told that there are complex meters
new and mixed, formed from different
stop. How can we find out where we have one?
compound or mixed meter, and where is pure
with hypostasis. Maybe it's a hypothetical phenomenon
random, heterogeneity of feet c. complex
and mixed meters defined: defined
no regularity... It turns out that it is.
V. Bryusov says: “there are hypostases of constant
new, when the meaning of all verses is the same

consisting of!
vtopaoinostaerovanny in the same way“,

and inthe other’ side, mixed” ‘meters’

formed from different! stop‘ in “arbitrary”

sequences." Istak; no difference
no” and
meter from complex or mixed nevoz"
possible. { ria her *
We find
V. Bryusova; On page 111, talking about complex

meter! “ferecrates”, he/indicates that the rit-
mitically this meter turns into a 'rueskoe'

verse in two verses a panapeet. s'feminine
the end and permanent status of the 1st
feet ‘amphimacrom.o’ And ‘further’ but about
complex meter “glivoney”; what’ he “tone
addressed in Russian verse! 'in'! 2-stone

confirmation! at ‘most’

anapest.with dactylic ending?po-
standing hypostasis! 1st amphimacrum:

’8) “If in a meter other than those syllables, which:
available! 'ee'
syllables, then such a phenomenon: ‘called! ‘isher--

ry are included ‘in the composition’ of the eton;

meter. If there are not enough syllables in the meter,
included in the foot that such ‘ulceration’
called lipometry." 81308

“That means there may be ‘elogs’ in the meter, no. enter-
living in. components of the foot? But6
V. Bryusov defined “meter” as a combination

8

stop; ‘Where did those ecillitin syllables come from?’

sa

PROLETARIAN CULTURE,\

distinguish and hypothesized

One of two things: either the meter is not a combination!

stop; a, slops;, or) ve’ extra ‘syllables; at all

useful; 3 included. in ‘©tones, ‘changing them’

character. VU

"Fo?zke!! regarding the 'lack of' syllables.

If the foot ‘is missing’ a syllable,
cheat;
another. 9x

if the anapest lacks the first elogue;
this means › that we have neo ‘anapaest,
&-iamb: G sweat she o a

this is

In State ` oto oO = and
‚`^.) PUBLIC. LIBRARY. VMA

know
what we had’ instead of one foot.
7 y ‹

No. 13- 14

Therefore, the ‘heterogeneity of ‘stop’ in
verse, besides the hypostasis and besides the complex ones”
and ‘mixed’ meters maybe, but to V. Bryusov,
everything else will appear as a result of iper- or lipo-'
meter. And to our bewilderment, just “
lick ‘inostasa and complex meters of gain-’
There is one more thing: how to distinguish from. them
hyper-and lipometry. :

It is clear that V. Bryusov says ‘in’ everything
three cases about the same phenomenon,
but ‘designates it’ by various terms;
for, obviously, greater “scientific”,

Q: Bryuev says in the preface; what
“his work, in its” methods, is something ‘s0-
completely new! in Russian literature."
If by “unovizia” we mean unprecedented
not only in rubles, but also in the world
literature confusion of concepts ‘and monsters-.
new ‘props of terms, then! V. Bryusov
right But if by new we mean
new! method, or the involvement of a mathematical
Actually, Bryusov’s book is as old as the world.
This! ‘chewing the beaten, long-lost
archive of Westphalian rhythmic works and
his’ tikolas, based in turn on
works of Greek, Latin and other
Mezriknov. B) Bryusov “didn’t notice that the people
a new ‘theory’ of the verse is given that is above the problem
mby rhythm worked and continues to work
such philologies as Sivers, Saran, and in our country
in Russia! Norsh. It doesn’t even mention them
blows. ‘‘r i

Bryusov's book is harmful. Let the
Chinese poets don’t rack their brains over it.
At best, she won’t give them anything,
at worst, it will confuse them. 2

This is not science, but pseudoscience.

23 dy: o M GRT:

209 s NS

Publisher -
`State publishing house.' oe 1

wasp I

Editor - `
Resentional Nollegia.

21st State Printing House (formerly "VA I. D. Sytina), Pyatnitskaya) 71.
„PROLETARIAN CULTURE-.

No. 1. 1918 July. From the editor. —Under the banner of Proletkult. V. Polyansky. —“Proletkult”—
|

organ span. amateur performances. V. Nerzhentsev. 1 RK and lvornestvo.
F. Kalinin. —What is proletarian poetry? A: Bogdanov—©. repertoire of the working party. V.-God-
Zieveviy.—To the convocation of the All-Russian Federation. conference k-pr. slave: org; Organ. Bureau.—Chronicle of Proletkult. Art.
Vrivtsov.-— Bibliography: “Red Light”. I. Kh. - “Flame”. "Creation". A. 0.—“The Future.” I.L.
No. 2. July Nationalism and socialism. V. Polyacheky.—Our criticism. Sl. 1st..A, Bogdanov -,
: =: Workers' club. F. Kalinin.—The ideal of education. A; Bogdanov.—To the convocation of Vseros:
’ conf. prol. k.-pr. organizations, Abstracts of reports: Revolution and cultural tasks of the proletariat.
V. Polyansky.— Nauas well as the working class. 4. Bogdanov.—Proletariat and art, A. Tunacharsky.——-
Ideals of socialist education. N.. Ulyanova (NY, Erupenaya). - Iron Messiah. V. Vi-
` rillov.—Funeral: (A. Pomoreniy.—Miracles of work.. A. Gastev.——Proletkult Chronicle: Deut.:
conf. Petrogr, “Prolelkulta” P. L. - = In the provinces. From. Arivtsov.-Bibliography: Literature. Al-
’ manah. V.P.—E. Timiryazev. Red. Banner. 4. About: Izvestia Moskov. Flight. Univ. 0:4:
No. 3 August Motives of ‘working poetry’. V. Polyansky.—Our criticism. Art. 2nd. Ah, Bogdanov. —
=: Circle work. Art. Erivtsov: Class theater. A. Malinin.—K. convening
All-Russian conf. prol. k:-pr. organizations. Abstracts of reports: Proletarian Club. S. Irivtsov.— Norma
representation ‘and plan’ of the conference. Organ. Bureau-_Chronicle of "Proletkult": V. provinces.
From..Vrivtsov,—Bibliography: A. Bogdanov: “Red Star”, and “Engineer Manny”. S.D.B.
Tierso. Celebrations and songs of the French Revolution. 7. R.-Lve reviews; 4. O.—From the editors.

va September Tov; N. Lenin. V. Nolyaneky.—_ Methods of labor and methods of knowledge, 4. Bogdanov.
= — The path of proletarian criticism and. poetry by A. Gastev. F. Kalinin. Labor re-
nutritional and productive work in the new school. V. 'Polyaneky. What a worker is supposed to be
club Y. Nrupspaya.—All-Russian Union of Working Writers, V. Ignatov. To the convocation of the All-Russian
conf. prol.. k.-pr. organizations, Abstracts of reports: Labor cooperation and proletarian cultural
construction. Y. Vasilevsky. Plant: spring, Song of iron. Poems. No. Gerasimov—Chronicle
"Proletkult":`Moscow, "Proletkult", Report. In the provinces. St.. Erivtsov.—Bibliography: ›
"future". G. MG.—“Nlamya.” A: O.—“Literature Appendix,” No. 1. V, G. - “Creativity”. 4. 9.—B!)
Kirillov. Poems. L.L.V, Fritsche. Proletarskaya. poetry: B; G.y:
No. 5. November The year of the proletarian dictatorship. V. Iolyansky.—Ideology of production, F. Vali-
————— 1+. - Proletarian University. A. Bogdinov. —— Organization of literary
creativity. V. Kerzhentsev, First All-Russian Conference. span. coolt-enlightenment of.organizations.
`V. Kunavim. —Resolutions of the conference; — Chronicle of “Nroletkult”: V. provinces. Art. Erivts0v.—
Bibliography: “Gorn”. V. Polyancheky. —, “In the storm and the flame*.” V. I-ii.— “Wedding › vestments.”
A. 0.—“From the diary of a kindergarten.” #. Zhersonekaya.— “The Crucible.” V.G.— “The Coming Culture.” I. L:

SE in "International Revolution and Prolegarian Culture. V. Nerzhentsev. —
3 6. 1919 February. 0b a F. Kalinin. or questions. V. Polyansky. —
Methods of work of Proletkult. In: Kerzhentsev. —‹Theory’ and ‘practice. 7. Sedelnikov.. - Plan
organization "Proletkult". —— Suburbs; Poem. M: Rubinstein: — “Proletkult Chronicle: .
In the province, From; Krivtsov. — Proletarian cult.-enlightenment. organizations. — Bibliography: “Prole-
Tara collection." V. Polyansky. - “Messenger of Life”. V. Vunavin. - “The Coming Culture”. I.L. =
"Firewing Plant*. 4..0.--S. Malashkin. "Muscles". 4. 0.— S. Yesenin. Transfiguration, V. G. -
NP. Oreshin. "Red Rus'". V. G, - S. Sredinsky. “Fundamentals of newspaper business.” M. M. - “Zarevo”
Factories." In "Polaneniy. - “The World and Man”. Sh. 1. t

ь 7. N Proletkulg and Soviet cultural work. A. Lunacharsky. - Our for-
No. 7 8. April May, dachas and paths. V. r Essays on organizational science, A. Bogda-
new —About the professionalism of workers in art. F. Kalinin.—About professionalism. V, Pletnev.

Collective creativity in the theater: V; Kerzhentsev: — About futurism. F. Kalinin:-— Soviet poetry

provinces. V. Polyansky. — “To the priests of art.” Poem. V. Kirillov. - Aviators. Discussion

A. `Shlyapnikov. — Model charter of the Proletkult club. Vaerovo. ©06.\Proletkult. == Chro-
Nickname “Proletkult”: In the provinces.— Instructor courses. Art. Yerivtsov.— Conferences. - Father-

‚ you - Bibliography: A. Sidorov - “Revolution and Art”, S. D. V. - Zalevsky. - - “Art
`and’‘proletariat’. 0%. Erivtsov.—Groshik. Stories. I. Rudokon - B; Ignatov: “Wedding Party”

I. Rudokoy - “Beeps”. IN; G. “Our Tory.” IN? N = y. “Beautiful morning” A.O, t G

10. Proletarian culture and its. critics. F. Kalinin. Outline and organization\
No. 9-10. JUNE-JULY. noah it. St A, I Ch. Darwin. and K: Marche. E. Telirya-
3ev.—Knowledge in the light of history: B; Polyansky.—Rost`Proletkult, O. Rainin.—O. trends

‚proletarian culture. A. Gastev. - About the tendencies of proletarian culture (response to Gastev). 4. Running

Fanov.—About provincial proletarian universities. A. Bogda 06.-Towards the closure of the proletarian age,
‚’ university. —— Chronicle of Proletkult: In the provinces. O. Rainin - Reports. — Bibliography:

M" Gerasimov. "Spring Plant" and "Flowers under Fire". PC. L.-V. Aleksandrovsky. "Worker".

village" and "North". V. I-i-—A. Pomeranian. “Shvety’ uprising” V. I-iii-— “Proletkult”.

A. 0.-—, Proletkult. P. Rudokop—“Labor.. and Creativity.” Sh. Rudojot,

E x. | `Where are we going? V. Polyansky The beginning of proletarian aesthetics. 4. „Moon-.
No. I. 12. December. and Essays in Organizational Science. Article 8, I. Bogdamov - Prole-
tariffization of science. M. Smith.—On methods of work in Proletkults. F. Nalinin. -Job Study
new processes. M. Smith. — Locomotive Cemetery Verse. No.: 82 testimony of M. 'F;. — Khrovika
“Proletzulta”, V. Proletkultakh. S.S.-Proletkult—Red Army ®. 0. Tambovsky's work
Proletkult v. Red Army. V.K.In the provinces. Bibliography: Originalist. "Under the Red"
Banner" V. Polyansky -K. Laptin. "Dawn".V. 1-ia. - G. Nechaev, “Evening Songs”. V. 1-4. —
"Wavings". 4, O.V. Popov. Stories. A. 0.—N. Tikhomirov. "Red Bridge". A. O-V. Kunov. |
“The emergence of religion and faith in God.” 11. L.G. Gorter. "Historical materialism." IP. /1.—
A; Bogdanov and I. Stepanov: Course of political economy. T. 2, Vl. RE

$K #5
©

d

Nina. me orni
`V. Polyav

And Punanarskoto,
g. Boglakov.

_ Zhuriya yy I Culture" for sale! Moscow
1st book warehouse. OOVVETVSNNTU. "Publishers.