r ——

t
::

ULTRA.

MONTHLY MAGAZINE,

No.
A; Bogdanov.
M. Smith.
V. Polyansky.

I. Nan,

A, Ivanov.
V. Smyshlyavv.
B. Nravin.

Q: Nunawin.
V. but comrade
N, V.
Khronints.

Bibliography.”

CONTENTS: |}

To the proletarian brothers of all countries:

Essays: organizational science. St: 6th,

Nearest. ethans of proletarianism” of science.

Letters on literary criticism:

`Technical and' organizational beginning in socialism
chess school:

Objectives of art education.

Installation of working theater studios.

Where and how to start in the field of music
‚arts,
1st All-Russian Proletkult,

Congress Resolutions:

Arena of proletarian creativity.

Present: day. Poem.

Conventions. In the province.

A. Worker. Horns. `A.’ Oh, Soldering Iron. B: P-th,
N. Popov. "Plains. V. P--ii'Glukhar. V; I-hiikh-
Flashes. JSC. — Yu. Yurn. Sloshny, language. V: P--ny. >
A. Neverov. Women. V. P-—ii,—I. Farm laborer.—Lashkov.
Laugh demon of evil. V. Pius. Artistic word.
I. Rudokop

No. 17-19.

August - December 1920

STATE PUBLISHING HOUSE.

MOSCOW,
| P 23 nya -
| 1489 p E Proletarians of all countries, unite!
Proletarian Culture.

MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
Organ Center, Committee of the All-Russian Council Propetkupt, t

&

Editorial office and office address: Mosnva, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 26-30,
Reception with the editorial secretary daily from 10 am to 4 pm.

No. 17-19. August—December. Year 1920

(7 <
CONTENTS: To the brother-proletarians of all countries.—Essays on the organizational
V. Py. -N, Popov. Plains; V. P.— Capercaillie. V. I—i.—Flashes. a. 0.-—

science. Art. 6th. A, OB stages of proletarianization of science.i. M. Smith.—
| Yu. Yurgn, Poloshny language. V. P-ii.— A. Neverov. Women. V. P-ii.—I. Batrak-
„2

suffered in the socialist school. ga a - Objectives of art education
niya, A; Ivanov. — Staging work in theater studios. V. Smyshlev.—Why and
how to start working in the field of musical art. V. Krasin.— 1st All; oss.
Proletkult Congress. V. Kunavin.—Congress resolutions. Arena proletarian wow creative
quality. V.. Imatov.— Present day. Otich. N.V.—Chronicle Prolet`ulga:
Congresses. In the province. — Bibliography: A. Worker. Horns. A. 0, - Soldering iron.

Letters on literary criticism. V. = -Technology and organizational!g oe
Lalkov. Laugh, demon Vla. V. P—ii—Artistic word. 1. Rudokot. “.

“Workers of all countries, unite!”

Brothers of the proletarians of all countries.

The proletariat does not seize power for its own sake. On the contrary, its ultimate
the goal is the destruction of every state, and he uses power only for
in order to create, by eliminating class barriers between people,
conditions for a pure public with a complete denial of the power of man over
human.

But he seizes power and not to organize economic life.
A person does not live only to arrange his material life.
Material life is only a prerequisite for those aspects of human activity
centuries in which he can draw the highest, most creative happiness
for higher forms of cultural activity. Semi-bourgeois economist Gobeon
expressed this idea perfectly. He said: “Like the gait, or the handwriting, sedately
are mechanized, and people are freed from the need to devote their
attention, it is certain that someday economic activity will be reduced
into the basement floors of culture and rests almost entirely on steel shoulders
cars. Man will remain in the sphere of scientific, artistic and moral
creativity."

This is what Friedrich Engels meant when he, an economic materialist,
spoke about the leap from the kingdom of necessity to the kingdom of freedom, which
is a social revolution.

But if these thoughts are not attributed entirely to the future for completion
social revolution, then they should be applicable only with known
restrictions for its first stages. There is a power struggle here, including here
civil war is the very first task and, without solving it, it would be
It is a great mistake to give priority to others after
current tasks.

But it is unthinkable to wage a civil war without resolving it at the same time

some economic tasks, because war andhosiyotio intertwined with each other
inseparably.
2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. They're 2nd

The same applies to the front of proletarian culture. We must not forget
him even at the height of the bloody feud for approval.
nroletarian power. How a war cannot be waged outside of certain economic
circumstances, we certainly cannot expect the final destruction of the bourgeois
peace without launching a struggle for proletarian culture. It is impossible to destroy
live. class division of society without overcoming the individualistic
vulture.

The political and economic emancipation of the proletarian masses is
a condition for spiritual liberation.

Due to historical development, the proletarian moved towards its final goal,
world communism—through political and economic struggle.

Now, with historical inevitability, a new labor front is being formed
struggle, revolutionary-cultural-creative.

At the same time, we, scientific socialists, strive to lay a solid foundation
ment of spiritual development of the masses.

Movement for proletarian culture, giving opportunity to the proletariat
to reveal the maximum of creative activity, must be imbued with combat
communist spirit. His goal is to equip the working class with new knowledge,
organize his feelings with the help of new art and transform him
everyday relations in a new spirit, truly proletarian, communist.

You cannot force old writers, artists, one way or another to serve
living bourgeois public, to be exponents of proletarian culture -
This would be a counterfeit. If we recognize the relatively important
The goal is to quickly develop the self-organization of proletarian emotions
art, then this can only be accomplished by the proletariat itself; ep
must identify its scientists, writers, poets, artists, artists, etc.

In their struggle for a new, proletarian culture, the proletariat, natural
will certainly take possession of all the cultural heritage of the past and present, but
He will be critical of all the fruits of the old culture. He won't accept it
like an obedient student, and like a builder,called upon to erect a new building
on the basis of the communist economy and friendly relations in the collective
tive work and struggle.

That is why, for example, Russia, in the difficult years of its struggle, must
was to devote a certain amount of attention and effort to economic and cultural
tour construction, taken in its entire breadth.

At the same time, it was impossible to simply dismiss the subtlest forms
culture, literature and art - as a luxury for such a heavy
time, as from flowers and fruits that can appear, only much
later proletarian summer.

No. Art—proletarian poem, novel, song, musical
A new work, a play, is a powerful propaganda tool.
Art organizes feeling just as precisely as ideological propaganda organizes thought;
Feelings determine the will no less powerfully than ideas.

On the eve of the October Revolution, the first conference was convened
proletarian cultural and educational organizations, and it was decided to develop
formation of an organization called “Proletkult”. N

Proletkult has undergone great development as a new form of working culture.
zheniya, as soon as the proletariat seized power in the gigantic country. Numbers
in this relationship are extremely eloquent.

The number of workers organized in Proletkults of Russia, groups
rallying around the All-Russian Proletkult, at least 400 thousand, of which
80 thousand not only joined the movement, but actually participate in various
studios.

The state, without at all constraining the Iroletkults, values ​​their 'bea-
conditional independence and initiative and widely helps them.

Proletkult publishes 15 magazines in Russia; he published up to 10 million
copies of his literature, belonging exclusively to the pen of the flight -
go (oleva to right
(chairman),

0):

I

Group of members of the International Bureau of Proletcult.
Var. Wang. Overetraeten, P. "Lebedev-Polyansky (secretary). =. "Lunacharsky
. Bombachii, V. Gerio:, standing: V. Bringotf, Yu. E.mder-Pros.

x

No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 5

Russian writers, and about 3millions of copies of musical works
different names, which are the product of the creativity of proletarian companies
positors. Proletarian artists and entertainers are also being identified.

The Russian proletariat, forging at first, in early spring
of his revolution, a new weapon in the fight against the bourgeois world, calls on his
European comrades to take the same path in this regard. Prole-
The leaders of Europe in terms of education are superior to their Russian comrades,
and in Western countries proletarian culture will be able to unfold more magnificently
color. It's not about competition, however, it's about mutual help, it's about brotherly
construction of a tall building of socialist culture.

The Central Committee of the All-Russian Proletkult, taking advantage of the convocation
2 Covgres of the IG International in Moscow, together with a group of delegates from the Con-
Grees created the Provisional International Bureau of Proletkult and its Executive
independent Committee. 2

The Executive Committee addresses the proletarians of all countries with pre-
proposal to organize a conference in every country dedicated to the proletarian
culture, and discuss this issue in the press and at public meetings,
begin to organize a wide network of Proletkults in order to co-
call the World Congress of Proletkult. }

For its part, the Executive Committee will provide all assistance in the sense
communication of material, instructions, literature, support for constant moral-
no communication it. p. >

The world proletariat must, although somewhat later than the Russian proletariat,
tariat, to begin the great task of creating Proletcults in their countries.

Long live the solidarity of workers around the world!

Long live the first stone laid as the foundation of the edifice of communist culture!

Long live the coming world: Proletkult!

Executive Committee of the International Proletkult Bureau:

Chairman A. Lunacharsky.
me V. Polyansky.
Members: W. McLane.

B. Heriosis.
R. Lefebvre. .
Moscow, N; Bombacci. `
August 12, 1990. Y. Humbert-Droz.

International Bureau of Proletcult.

‚During the Congress of the Communist International,after frequent
meetings with delegates from individual countries, etc. official joint
meetings, the International Provisional Bureau of Proletkult was organized)

It included representatives of the following countries: V. McLane, T. Quelch
(England), R. Lefebvre (France), V. Herzog, M. Wartel (Germany), K. Tomachn
(Avetria), N. Vombacci (Italy) Var Van Overstraeten (Belgium), Y. Amber
Droz, V. Bringhoif (Switzerland), John Reed (America), A. Lunacharsky,
V. Polyaneky (Russia), Langset (Norway).

"The Bureau elected an Executive Committee of seven members: A, Lunachar-
skiy (chairman), V. Polyansky (secretary); members: W. McLane, R. Lefebvre,
V. Gortsog, N. Bombacci, Y. Amber-Droz.

On the organizational issue, the assembled representatives made a
Zoyayu: “But at the proposal of the Central Committee of the All-Russian Council
Proletkult we discussed the great problem of the struggle of the proletarian culture
tour and decided to create the Provisional International Bureau of Proletkult.

The first task of the Bureau will be to spread the principles of proletarian
culture, the creation of Proletkult organizations in all countries and preparation
World Congress of Proletcult."

6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. d N—9

Essays on organizational science.
The forms are centralistic and skeletal').

The development of organizational forms through systemic divergence gives, in
a number of others, two special cases, especially important and in their distribution
strangeness, and tectological significance. They are “universal”, not
in the sense of ingression and disingression, which are included in the definition
any organization in general, but in the fact that they are deployed to a global scale
headquarters and cover all areas of our experience. These are the two types playing
an exceptionally large role in organizational development; one more
concentrates activities, creates opportunities for their maximum accumulation
tions in one system; the other primarily records activities,
It combines them in this form and ensures maximum strength of the system.
If we use ordinary terms, but expanding their meaning,
then firstThe first type could be called “centralistic”, the second - “skeletal”
flying." But both terms are too closely related for our understanding.
with certain social and biological forms, which, however,
and are the most characteristic representatives of these types, however, far
They are not fully expressed on their global scale. Therefore we will introduce two
new designations - “egression” and “degression” - more precisely corresponding to the current
tological idea.

1. Origin and development of egresiya.

Let there be an organized one. a system consisting of several! com-
plexes A, B, C, 0... It could be the Sun with it. planets and their planets
kami, a group of people, a combination of concepts that forms some kind of classic
fication, etc. System. changes, maintaining its ligature, develops into
one side or the other; through interaction with a favorable environment
or unfavorable, i.e. under conditions of selection of positive or negative
useful. Its complexes change in mutual dependence, since
they remain parts of one whole. But, the degree of this mutual dependence,
The strength of influence of one complex on another can be different, and moreover. unequal-
measured: from the side, for example, complex A has a greater influence on B than the other way around.
Thus, the movement of a particular planet is largely determined by the Sun,
than his movement by this planet; one member of the group “submits” to another,
or at least imitates him more often. follows. z" to us than that to this; etc.
This kind of connection... is called: “egression,” that is, in the literal sense.
Patina’s word, “out of line.” That ‘complex; which has
and the predominant influence of others, like the Solice’ in the planetary system, leading
a driver in a group of people, a generalizing concept among more specific ones, is
as if out of line; his difference: from others there is’ ;egreeive ‘di-
ity,” and he himself in relation to them is an “egresive” center. | |

Systems of this kind are referred to in ordinary speech as ‘centralized’
istic." But since social groupings are most familiar and close to us
rovingthis is mud, then we involuntarily imagine all others according to their model,
and even precisely in that coloring of “power - subordination”, which is typical
to the vast majority of current social ‘egressions. Solvtse diya us
as if it rules over the planets, the brain over the parts of the body; etc.; Zhogda
people observe the life of bees, ants, termites, and find in their
tions of the egressive center, the uterus, then they attribute some kind of power to it, about eka-
she is called “queen” in the title. All this, of course, is arbitrary and incorrect.

*} This is the sixth oporiosis in the series.
No. 97-19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. and

transfer by analogy 1), Our concept of egression must be perfect
freed from them, and express a completely objective, formal relationship

iae complexes.
Let's look at several typical cases of its origin

aggression.

I In modern people's ortanizations there is almost always an egressile,
sleep not in the form of “power”, then in the form of actual leadership. There are, however,
there are many reasons to believe that in primitive clan groups and such
there was no egression—systematic management of common labor did not exist—
Valo: the methods of struggle for life were so simple and inintrinsic that everyone
knew and was able to do as much as his friend. The germs of leadership are acts’ sub-
proposals, calls to action—came in one case from one, in another
from another member of the group, yet still creating lasting differences between them.
But still, the homogeneity of the group could not be complete: there was individual
dual development of “abilities”. i.e., peicho-physiological organization
features of human species; it was expressed in unequal degrees of inipia-
tives, speed, expediency of actions among the changing conditions of the
lective struggle with nature. That community member; which was superior in
helping others, especially often giving them an example or direction in the right way
moment, for example, with threatening danger, or simply with general indecision
telnosti.

This primary difference increased over time; human, biological
students are more organized, learn better andfuller than the rest,
accumulating collective experience, and therefore increasingly different
from them the speed and success of orientation in the conditions of practical life
givi; typical increase in tectological difference, according to the law of divergence
niya It, for the most part, did not stop in the community and with the death of such
person. Heredity passed it on to children, in varying degrees,
mental flexibility, its organically enhanced type, especially since on

“The same share usually went to the healthiest and most beautiful wives,
capable of producing the best children; and since the father took part in
raising children, a higher level of education was created for them compared to others
development opportunity. Naturally, from among them, if not always, then in
in the vast majority of cases, the one who managed to achieve his
Life is still slightly higher than the average level of its relatives.
In the same way, the difference continued to increase little by little and in the following
next generations. The experience and will of one became more and more decisive
moment in the practice of the whole team: sustainable egression developed.

In short, within one generation, a similar path of development on
Repeat every step now. It can be seen in children's products
ceremonial circles where leaders emerge; but also all sorts of groups of ‘adults’
ly people, professional, ideological, political, arising from
basis of formal equality of all members, most often they move then,
consciously or unconsciously, to the type of egression. —

In a continuous chain of transition from the embryos of egression to its highest stages,
prices there is one point that should be noted. If higher ‘organiza-
Let us denote this complex as A, and the other complexes of the same system as K, G, M, M.
then if their interaction influences A on K, or on G, it is greater than the result
‘the influence of K or G on A; but all together the complexes K, G, M, M..., can
call on A a more significant determining influence than it has -
wat. on whirlwind; in our example, the outstanding member of the group, although more often gives
approx.er, guidelines to each of the others than that to him, but in
in the aggregate, they still manage it more than they do otherwise. These are the per-
long stages of developing egression, its not fully expressed forms, when

1) Natsr.
soybeans of the community, the leader of the miracle. N
8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: No. 179

before it reaches such a level as the complexes A, 0, B, M taken in total...
are more determined by complex 4 in their changes than it is by them, then
Before us the aggression is quite pronounced. In our example this corresponds to
the second phase, when a permanent organizer stands out among the clan community—
a patriarch or leader who systematically guides her life.

In the above illustration there is one feature that has in common
tectological significance. If complex A is organized above and below
organized parts of the same system K, GR, M, M... are in the same
for all of them in the environment, then the difference in their mutual influence, “egressive development”
ity“, does not remain at the same level, but increases. It's easy to see why
so, and why is it necessary; you just have to take into account the attitude
the system as a whole and its individual parts to their environment.

The moving equilibrium of a system with its environment is always only relative,
lipn, approximate; the environment is either favorable for it, and then there is
preponderance of assimilation over activity losses, positive selection ©
an increase in the sum of its activities—either unfavorable, i.e., outweigh-
There is disassimilation, the selection is negative. At the same time, the higher organized
the complex in both cases has an advantage over the lower organized
nymi: better assimilates activities from the external environment, better counteracts
corresponds to its destructive influences. Therefore, with positive
selection, it is faster than others, enriched with activities, strengthened
due to the environment, with a negative environment it slows down in activities, lags behind
in the process of weakening. It is obvious that in both cases the egressive difference
betweenit and other complexes increases.

It may even happen that complex 4, but its highest organi-
called this, “stronger” than the environment, takes more from it than it takes from him,
while the others, K, G, M... are “weaker” of the same environment: for him the selection of
resident, negative for them. The faster the aggressive one then grows
difference.

In the social life of aggressive organizations throughout history
era was prevalent everywhere. For the study of the enormous mass of cases
teas for the development of such organizations, the situation that we have just formulated
lyated, is a necessary and reliable guiding thread. In the revolution
eras, the process of transformation is especially frequent and especially vivid.
formation of organizations with embryonic egression, in the form of barely noticeable authorization
tarity, in the organization of quite pronounced egression, strict authoritarian
discipline, “firm power”. .

We have established the inevitability of an increase in the egressive difference between
complexes of the system when they are in the same environment. But she really
exists, may not be the same for them; this difference in environment may
also be the basis for the emergence and development of egression. This is, for example,
ev origin in the solar-planetary system according to the Kantian-Laplacian theory
rii. It is accepted that the mutual gravitation of the elements of matter is initially
gave rise to simple clusters of “cosmic fog”, gigantic in volume
complexes of extremely rarefied matter, without a definite center, with ve-
stable structure and uneven density. But the middle and first
The spherical parts of such complexes were in different environmental conditions.
Since in general the accumulation of matter increased, attracting and attaching
particles scattered in the ether, to the extent that it as a whole was under the influence
positive selection. It was for the middle parts that this action was
the most powerful; and not because they were higher organized, in
and because they were already surrounded by previously collected periphery matter:
for their collective activity, their “power of attraction”, andchalked nearby
ready and rich material, i.e. the most favorable environment. On the contrary:
the peripheral parts had an ethereal layer on one side, in which
particles of matter are scattered with immeasurable rarefaction, on the other hand, the rest
a large mass of the nebula, which still attracted matter from the periphery.
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 9

Not only was there much poorer material for assimilation here, but
There was a tendency to take away the already collected substance, to rarefy it.
niya in favor of the middle parts; and it intensified, sooner or later it became
became predominant, so that the periphery fell under the influence of negative
body selection. This is how a central condensation was formed - the complex above
organized because it contained a larger amount
activities; its tectological difference with the periphery obviously increased.
This was the primary egression of the solar system; further aggression only
changed in its forms: foggy rings separated, rotating
around the central condensation, they disintegrated, from them formed
planets, etc.

From this illustration we borrow two terms for what follows.
The main, higher organized complex of the egressive system we will
call it “central” for it, or simply its center; others - “peripheral”
“real”, and we will mean only organizational relations,
completely eliminating the thought of spatial position. For example, in the system,
consisting of the mother of a pregnant female - and her unborn offspring,
the center of egression, of course, is the mother, and the cubs are “peripheral”,
i.e. structurally more dependent complexes, although in terms of the place of interaction
the relationship is just the opposite. o g

This is, moreover, an example of another origin of egression through time

division of a complex, when they are separated from it, remaining in some system
no connection © it, its smaller or weaker organized parts. How to form
erupted from the central condensation of the solar nebula of the planet, or all
or maybe only “internal“, closest to the Sun, the Moon from the earth-
nogo epheroid, etc. :
A mother and unborn cubs provide a suitable illustration
development of an egressive system in a different direction. Here the aggressive
ity does not increase, but decreases, due to the extremely different parts
systems to environmental conditions. The germ cell is in an ideal position for
development environment, while the mother’s body deals with a harsh environment
which external nature, its numerous spontaneously hostile influences
actions. If for the mother the predominant nature of selection still remains
positive, i.e. her body still. grows, accumulates energy, develops
‘It turns out that in no case can this selection be so intense
nim and fast, as for an embryo formed due to its ready-made
juices, under the protection of her tissues. And it is clear that the egressive difference decreases
shaotsya to a huge extent from the moment the baby is born in the form of one
fertilized cell before the act of birth, when the baby is physically and physiologically
logically separated from the mother. ,

The basic type of relationship does not change after this; it's only
takes on a different form and is not expressed quantitatively so sharply. Mother or
both parents feed the child together, protect the child, guide him, appearing for
vego the main importance and at the same time the most favorable
according to the tendency of environmental complexes; they take the largest share
its hostile influences, and maintain conditions beneficial for the child.
But this egregious difference continues to decrease; and finally it comes
the time when it is reduced to zero. The child has become an adult, his
life organization is no longer below the level of his parents; in the system
his family is vitally determined by them no more than by the opposite. And it may happen
it doesn’t stop there: parents “get old”, weaken under negative
selection; the son becomes the head of the family: a “reversal” of egression occurs, re-
changing the sign of its difference.

This illustration needs to be explained because your setting
question in one point sharply contradicts the usualin the best way so far
thinking. Those processes of growth of the organism, its stop in development, then
its decline, on which the change in the egressive difference depends, we consider
#0 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. - 6 179

trivium, as a result of the relationship of the organism with the environment, is more favorable
Noah for him or less favorable. The traditional point of view
is this: in youth the body grows precisely because it is young, and therefore
that this is the natural order of the life process; maturity leads to remaining
new growth, and old age to decline due to the same general natural
ranks; the main thing here is not in the environment, because no change in the environment in
“The good side cannot be forced, old man,” to grow again, like a child.
baby This seems immutable, like everything firmly crystallized in
I eat onyte.

But we must correctly and accurately understand what “hereda” is. She is owl
the totality of external influences under which the system is located, but interlocked
name in relation to her. Therefore, a different system means a different environment. Easley
take an old organism and place it like rzz where you just found it
was young, then all external influences will turn out to be different than they were for
young. For example, the difference in body temperature and ambient air will be
not the same, because the blood temperature decreases in old age; sum of light
eruption acting on the retina is not the same, because the transparency of the eye
holoka is reduced; all irritations perceived by the organs. feelings, no heh,
due to changes in the function of these organs—“dulling of sensitivity”;
The effect of air oxygen in the lungs on the blood is also no longer the same, etc. And
It is quite scientific to consider senile decline as a result. unfavorable
external relations that are unfavorable for the body, or, what is the same, unfavorable
environment: if the sum of his activities is low, then there is a lot of environment. from
Maot does not give him enough material to assimilate,

Of course, we still cannot create environments that are sufficiently favorable
pleasant for the senile organism, or, it comes down to the same thing, change
oso that in our ordinary environment her mokyo would be created for him
vat. This is unresolved. task; but count it. There is no other basis that is insoluble.
ny, except. conservatism of thinking. Partially, at known conditions,
even our medicine still decides, but nature has fundamentally decided
ee for organizations higher and more visible than our organism - for single-celled
beings and for groups: their old age is not final, it. maybe sme:
nyatya update. Asya. Zee

° As for egression, as we have seen, its development could proceed
in one direction or the other, and it depends on. character of the meal
in relation to different parts of the system. In essence, the environment never
may be the same for the center and for the ‘peripherals. complexes:
since they differ structurally, insofar as they differ, so to speak,
“perceive” her actions, other things being equal. This. necessary. ee-
must be taken into account when studying egressive forms. |

Increasing egressive difference within a primitive clan group
led to the isolation of a permanent center in it. the face of the “patriarch”, the
the driver of labor and distribution, its oldest and most experienced member. Finally
Until this time, one could take the living environment as approximate
exactly the same for members. groups, adjusted only for differences
“most organisms—because both labor and distribution are on the same level. blood
connections remained fairly uniform, & external life. fitting
was the same, common. But a permanent leader is inevitably useful
It is our position to deviate from this uniformity; yovi" -
consciously or unconsciously, in the distribution of labor and product it gives
first advantage to yourself, & then to your closest relatives. Then -egree-
The actual difference increases the faster; "in connection with this even more
vivaoteya heterogeneity of living conditions within the community, etc. Unequal
weakens the meaning of blood ties; subsequently its limits are completely limited. development
falls, but has created new forms of egression—feudalism, slavery, in their iro-
severing exsilation, which in the patriarchal-tribal grunio is
ealaev only at the stage of a barely perceptible embryo.
No. 7—9 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. And

It turns out, as if, the picture of the unlimited is digging like an avalanche
egressive difference based on conditions that are more and more favorable
length of the central complex, compared to the periphery. But at close
It's not that easy in research. Every life in general, and especially
social, there is a complex complex of various specific activities.
Conditions that are particularly favorable for the development of some of these activities are
may not be favorable to others at all; this is precisely the case of social
new egression associated with exploitation.

The two main groups of social activities are, on the one hand,
which are sent to production, on the other hand, those who are destined for
consumption. During evolving exploitation, the environment of different parts of the system
varies unevenly in relation to these two groups. For ekeplo-
the passing individual, group, class, the further the exploitation goes, the more
wider possibilities of consumption; and in this sense, aggressively diverge from
exploited individuals, groups, classes, obviously, does not cease
increase while the basic structure of the system is preserved. This is how it happens;
for example, the feudal lords had a progress in their needs throughout the entire period of their reign,
the ability to use surplus product in a varied and refined manner, to
“The motorcycle never stopped; the same thing is observed for the bourgeoisie in
:next period. But otherwise it would be different with production activities.
Only at the beginning, with a slight separation in life from the dominant
and subordinate elements of social organization, the former can progress
work in a productive and labor direction, because there are still
in direct, close connection with production: partly they themselves work, directing
subordinates, with the help of a living example, partially interfere with the work
those, controlling and regulating its entire specific course, determining its m
neliving it, if not directly, then indirectly. Subsequently, increasingly
hovering over those being deployed, they move further and further away from. directly
labor process, are limited only to increasingly general guidance and
madzor; materials, tools, i.e. actual production conditions, . re-
become their closest enemy; to deal with all this they provide

they influence the subordinates - peasants, serfs, slaves, workers; and thus
Thus, little by little, the basic prerequisites for development disappear for the exploiters.
production activities; in this sense, the environment becomes for them
more and more unfavorable, and over time begins to regress, fall
doc. Historically, usually, there was finally a transformation. exploiters
in parasites, i.e. complete withering away of their social and labor function, loss
the entire sum of production activities.

For the “complexes of the periphery”, i.e., in this case, the exploited ones,
and those in power, environmental conditions seemed to be favorable in the sense
labor progress: live interaction with the object of labor, physical
nature, with materials and tools of production. But that's just it. one here-
ron of their “environment”. Its other side is the “central complexes,” that is, in
in our example, exploitative elements. If they intensify the exploitation
tion more and more, they deprive the subject of an increasing amount of them
vital energy in the form of products and other ways (for example, cruel treatment
value), then everything, and by the working classes on the one hand, is lost,
and more abundantly, on the other. They are under constant influence
negative selection, which sooner or later, accumulating, reaches a
of devastating proportions: they degenerate through exhaustion. This was how it was at work
possessive ancient world: the gentlemen were exhausted from idleness and chaos,
slaves - from overwork and difficult conditions; the result was
general collapse of the system.

However, something else is also possible. It happened that the force of swarm exploitation was not
quickly as the labor development of the exploited took place; then harm
was generally favorable for them, their social energy increased,
And this means that resistance to all sorts of generally harmful things has increased.
c. PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17

development, including increased deployment, so that it no longer
could grow at a disastrous speed. Degeneration of the dominant aside
parasitism went along with the labor progress of the subject, and the former
egression was undermined step by step in a completely different direction:
When another result is also possible: the collapse, in the end, not of the entire social system:
organization, & only its former “central complexes”, the master
existing groups or classes.

The forms of egression are diverse, and the paths of its evolution are different. But, please
using clarified concepts and observing the relationship of the egressive system
in general and its individual parts to their environment, it is fundamentally possible to establish
develop trends in systemic development, and therefore foresee, or even
and by dimensional influence predetermine the further fate of the system.

*. The meaning and boundaries of egreeee.

The human body has its own central complex, namely -
brain. All other organs, as they say, are “subordinate” to it, defined
They swear by it in their reactions. This connection is of enormous importance for the sustainability
the organism’s dependence in the struggle of life and for its development: thanks to the dependence
simosti. from one center, the activity-resistance of the whole can be concentrated
to be carried out at various points and directions in its interaction with
external environment. The fate of a system, as we know, is decided by its smallest
relative resistance to hostile environmental influences; activity
brain’ allows you to increase these small ones where danger threatens,
or ‘in general there is a need: activities move there in a coordinated manner
other parts of the system. The eye, for example, is very defenseless in itself, even
to small mechanical forces; but when they are ‘directed.
against him, then in the vast majority of cases they encounter unequal
slightly more significant resistance to the frontlimbs, or not even
reach the body due to the use of the activity of other organs,
changing body position. Or, for example, focused on one object.
enemy - the action of hands, feet, teeth will incomparably more accurately and quickly eliminate the
possible harm from it than ‘the efforts of only one of these
organs:

The meaning of the egressive connection becomes even clearer if we take the illustration
stration system of human egression, at least an army. A number of central com-
complexes of the lower order—commanders of small units—are united by the price
thunder of the highest order, ‘chief of a larger unit; a number of such prices
trov—even higher ones, etc.: platoon officers, company officers, regimental commanders,
generals, right up to the Supreme Commander-in-Chief. Through these intermediate
'The millionth links of the living force are connected together, and the main center
determines its mass movements, directing hundreds of thousands of human units
prostrate in places where there is the least relative resistance, or where
the greatest relative action is required.

Each given complex is something limited, and due to this it can
be directly related also only to a limited number of similar ones
complexes; for example, a person is able to maintain a lively and slim
direct cooperation in any complex work no more
as with several dozen people, but with other types of work even that
less. But if one is capable of leading, say, even just ten,
then with two-degree egression the highest leader, dealing with ten
lower ones, can lead one hundred people; with a three-walled one - a thousand
whose, etc.; a chain egression of 6 links then unites a million, of
9 links billion.

This is how egression concentrates activities. It may seem that when she
In valuable deployment, this concentration has no limits. In fact
ness, ‘however, they always exist. And this is not just a fact known from “
observations: tectological research shows that it follows from
No. M—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 13

organizational neonecessity that egression, by its very nature, is limiting
nothing.

The point is that the chain of egression cannot unfold, link by link.
nom, endlessly. Between every higher echelon and those directly related
with him lower there must always exist an egressive difference, meaning
different levels of organization; transition from top to bottom
corresponds to a decrease in level of organization, which should be sufficient
It is great that these lower ones are constantly and steadily determined by the higher echelons.
nom in his changes. For an infinite series of links it would be necessary
consequently, an infinite number of such reductions; the question is his
possibilities.

`In the abstract, such a series seems easy to imagine; for example, take math
matic descending progression:
1; 0.1; 0.01; 0.001; 0.0001; 0.00001..., it. d.

But is such a relationship feasible in the form of real egression?
Any organizational connection—of course, also an aggressive one—is related to the
levny activities; e.g., communication between the army of bureaucrats, industrial
hierarchy—to “organizational” activities; connection between the solar system and planets,
their satellites - to the activities of “gravity”, etc. For an infinite series
links with their differences would require an endless division of these activities.
But in our experience no definite activities are divided endlessly
so as to remain the same. What organizational activities
You can’t divide unlimitedly, that’s self-evident; but the same should be said
Let’s also talk about the activities of gravity: they can be divided down to “material”
atom"; and if we go further, then we will see other activities,
electrical; vital activities can be recognized as such down to the particle
living protein, and with further crushing we can only talk about chemical
checheskih, about. physical activities of “dead” matter, etc. This means that in
of any egressive chain, going down from link to link, we inevitably reach
we know that with a further decrease in organization,
`already other activities, not those that are characteristicterrify our aggression. Not
It is also possible, of course, that these other activities, in turn, result in:
they are creating a chain of egression, but it will not be the old one, but a new chain, a different system, with
with their special relationships.

_ In practice, this limitation is also expressed in the fact that as
lengthening of the egressive chain, its lower links are less and less defined
are the central complex. Thus, in a despotic monarchy the Sultan,
a king or a shah can directly direct his ministers, and they can direct theirs
the closest officials, etc., right down to the last peasant; but
the connection between this peasant and the monarch, due to its remoteness, is very insignificant;
it is so indirect that it represents only a faint hint of the real hand-
Vodka Such a connection may be sufficient in a stable equilibrium
howl system; but ev’ weakness is revealed when processes appear
development or decay. Then, for example, it turns out that the most powerful
gums are unable to achieve any obedience from the masses, go
that the most benevolent ruler is unable to do anything for them
bark. So the commander, separated from the soldiers by a number of intermediate
steps, can have extremely little influence on those changes in their “spirit”, which
These rapidly unfold during the battle and decide its outcome. —9This
chain weakening of the connection puts a limit to the concentrating force of any given
egression.

Another factor operates in the same direction—the accumulation of systemic
contradictions. Egression is a special case of differentiation, organizational
significant discrepancy; the wider and further it unfolds, the stronger the
it is this differentiation with all its consequences; and one of them, absolutely
The inevitable, as we know, is the development of systemic contradictions. And
It is even here that there are particularly striking, illustrative examples of this.
14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17-18

The “authoritarian” organizations we have already mentioned are most
Twi egress is still widespread in society. Their shapes are very different
unique in the history of mankind:patriarchal community, feudal system,
slave-owning economy, eastern depotism, bureaucracy, modern
army, bourgeois family, etc. If you observe their development for sufficient
period of time, then the same thing is always obtained, in general terms,
Nartina. Partial contradictions are revealed almost from the very beginning.
Between the central complex and the peripheral ones, between the “organizers”,
or the rulers, and the “executors”, or subordinates, goes peihology-
logical divergence: their mutual understanding becomes incomplete, and then
The tendency to reduce it is becoming increasingly stronger. From here, more and more often,
“mistakes”, unconsciously disorganizing acts, on both sides.
For example, an officer, who knows how to understand the mental state of a soldier, gives away inappropriately.
Zoobraznye, and even actually impossible orders; soldiers getting used to
only blindly obey, become confused when the situation changes,
not provided for in the orders, even if insignificant; slave owner
cruelty, taking into account the experiences of the people under their control, show
capriciousness”, “arbitrariness”; from those side there are hidden or obvious ones. resections:
beatings; all these are sources of fruitless waste of energy, reducing
viability of the organization.

° The intensification of such contradictions usually led to disintegration and collapse
nium of authoritarian groups. Thus, the ancient world perished from the results
excessive differentiation of its two poles. Slave owners and bureaucrats
of the Roman Empire turned into pure parasites, capable only of
on a huge scale to consume social and labor activities, embodied
present in the products of work of other classes, but having lost their organizing
energy and skill necessary to manage work processes and
combating the hostile environment surrounding the Empire; the slaves were degenerate
and died out from excessive work and insufficient consumption, but in 10.
at the same time, due to their “subordinate”, slavish mentality, they could not
fight against the exploitation that suppressed them, did not even think about rewriting:
mustachethe trinity of social life through their own efforts; other classes too
fluctuated between parasitism and exhaustion, or even combined both
another, like the urban “proletariat” of that time, living in poverty and idleness,
donations from the rich and the sale of their votes and services to political groups
us. Throughout society, the “spiritual connection”, i.e., decreased and weakened. community
interests and mutual understanding; and the coordination of the spa depends on this connection,
practical organization. It weakened, i.e., occurred internally
_severe disorganization; the productive energy of society decreased; and it
should have perished under the blows of those very barbarian tribes who
previously it was easy to win and exploit as a source of slaves.

Likewise, an army in which isolation has reached the extreme
reward and officers, so that there is no live communication and solidarity between them
ity, turns out to be powerless in any serious struggle. Subordinate-
those who perceive orders from superiors, superiors, without understanding and trust
nicknames do not know how to take into account their strengths, abilities, and especially their moods
subordinates; as a result - irreparable 'mistakes of management, lack of
unreliability of execution, which leads to inevitable disaster.

Often an authoritarian family, bourgeois, peasant, merchant, landed
Shchychya, disintegrates due to the development of the despotism of its head. Not accepting
into account the personal life of his wife and children, without even imagining it
it is any clear that he is inappropriately disposing of them, encounters
to unexpected resistance, moves from misunderstanding to hostility, -
which, of course, becomes mutual, and, in the end, with your own hands
destroys. family connection, the basis of his power. Pictures of such decomposition
a triarchal-organized family is one of the favorite subjects of the old
Rehmaniet.
+
No. 17 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. \/5

\

In an individual organism, the egresive center is the brain. Medium for
it is more favorable than for other organs: from the outside, it is protected, &
internal, nutrient medium—crblood and lymph—distributed unevenly
`carry in his favor. Naturally, the egressive difference increases: in:
in the development of the organism, the relative importance of the brain, its “power” over the whole,
increases; and this process does not stop even when life
begins to decline. The sum of accumulated brain activities, expressed
which is rich in experience, in the elaboration of methods, reaches its maximum
when other organs, the entire periphery, are already weakened. Then I will discover
there is a systemic contradiction, consisting in the fact that for the organizational
brain power is insufficient; executive activities of other organs are insufficient;
part of it is lost fruitlessly. 51 }eipezze zauay 81 ueShszze rotsua!! - I wish I could
wisdom knew, if old age could! “- this is how worldly wisdom noted
like the bitterness of this contradiction,

In the inorganic world, the sun served as an example of egression for us.
‹system and similar ones. Catch their contradictions with modern methods
possible only theoretically. If, as this is possible with the greatest possible basis,
We assume that the Sun, together with the planets, continues to collect
ria scattered in the surrounding space, then after sufficient time
it, due to the increase in its mass, will inevitably attract and absorb these
Nyaanet. And if modern ideas about the structure of atoms are correct, then the fall
large planets on the Sun will have to lead to significant fragmentation
the meaning of matter itself.

The method of resolving systemic contradictions is fundamental for egressics
the same as for other forms of divergence, namely contra-differential
tion. This is observed, for example, in some social groups of this kind.
type, which is usually referred to as their “democratization”: controlled
encourage participation in the management of a common cause; leaders, first in their
imperious grandeur, torn away from live performing practice, forced
they try to get into closer communication with her; systemic connections are strengthened
this way. The newest revolutions generally follow the lines of a similar
contra-differentiation: “bourgeois” gravitatedto mixing, i.e., con’yuga-
tions of the classes that ruled with the lower ones; "votialistic" predetoit
class merging problem. The fact that conjugation here is in
the beginning of struggle, or at least even war, as we pointed out, does not change anything
in the tectological essence of the fact.

Other, special contradictions are possible in egressive systems, depending
arising not so much from differentiation as from its incompleteness; they observe `
given in cases of so-called “multicentrism”. Well organized
egression is characterized by one center; and if it is complex, chain-like, then y.
it has one highest, common center, and each group of its members is directly
directly associated with one closest, and not with two or more
centers. But in reality, such a correct form of communication is far from being observed.
always: there are systems with two or more main centers, with parallel
lelism of connections of some lower centers, in a word - not corresponding
principle of unity of center. Since this is so, imbalances manifest themselves in them.
confusion, contradictions, disorganization. The determining influence of one center
on its periphery encounters the determining influence of another, and semi-
unstable relationships emerge. Ancient wisdom expresses this saying:
niyami on the topic: “one servant cannot serve two masters.” And really
Indeed, in authoritarian forms of egression the contradiction appears especially
visually; and the ancients did not know any other forms; but the rule remains the same everywhere.

In our planetary system there is one center - the Sun; satellites of the planets also
connected with them monocentrically; and the whole, according to us. I think it's pretty good.
balanced. Among double stars, however, there are apparently also
standing “twins”: pairs of suns of approximately equal mass that
revolve around their common center of gravity. We, of course, do not know

16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

Do they have planets? but there is nothing incredible in this, it is only possible
< it is safe to say that in a fairly wide belt of planets between them
it shouldn't be exactlywhere their attraction is largely, to a certain extent, con-
supervised: calculations show that there are no stable orbits there
it would work out. If common planets are possible, then only on such a large
dispersal from both suns, at which their action is sufficiently merged
It turns out that they together form one center for these planets, or rather,
This role is played by their common center of gravity.

There are, as one can assume from some data, such stars-
we6 systems, where a light central body revolves around a dark central body
a satellite that gives radiant energy to this dark body and to all the planets:
one center was for the activities of gravity, the other for the activities of light
and warmth." Is this bicentricity? No, these are just two different aggressive organizations
nizations related to different activities, each with one center; both
“suns”, dark and light, do not compete. ourselves in our different
central functions. In the same way, if someday the Earth becomes valuable
trom of life for all the planets of our system - will populate them with its emissions
grants, this will not create any organizational conflict with the central
the different role of the Sun.

However, the issue of bicentrism is not always resolved so simply. For example,
in feudal organizations of different countries and eras there was the power of priests with
on the one hand, the power of secular feudal lords on the other. In other cases, parallel
the peaceful existence of these two powers continued for centuries without noticeable
disorganization of the social whole; in others, on the contrary, flare-ups between them
there was a fierce struggle, which, through a huge waste of strength, led
to the subordination of one side or the other, i.e. generally to one-centeredness. Where from
such a difference?

Ekrets and secular feudal lord according to his original economic
meaning are defined as “peaceful production” and “military” organizations
congestion in a community or society: the highest was concentrated in the hands of one
leadership of the peaceful labor practice of the collective, in the hands of another such
the same leadership in combat practice, so important under feudalism with its insufficiency
numbernumerous small and large wars. Everyone, therefore, has their own
a special field for collecting and concentrating social activities; and since
this is so, here we see not one, but two different egressions; bicentricity in these
conditions does not work out, and a sustainable organization is possible.

But the connection of social life is so close, its elements are so intertwined
between themselves, which is why there is never a distinction between two fields of activity
complete: they partly overlap one another, the central functions to some extent
to a good degree they are mixed on both sides. Yes, remembrance
youth is, generally speaking, in the hands of the priests; however, the military leader
cannot help but interfere in this matter: he must take care of combat training
training of personnel of your friendship; and.its independent calculations can often
there’s no mistaking the priest’s calculations here, at least on the issue of distribution
time of young men studying. Sometimes the fighting instincts of warriors are revealed
engage in oppression of the more peaceful members of their own community, and
the establishment of ‘order’ then concerns both leaders, and their tendencies
may find themselves in a practical contradiction: everyone stands for “their own”.
And in general, the amount of vital activities of this organization is limited,
and therefore their concentration around one authority often occurs 3%
by reducing the forces associated with another authority; for example, the most intelligent
the disciples of the priest, whom he designates as his successors, are lured away from him
into the squad, and this leads to clashes, to struggle.

›when feudal exploitation develops widely, then counter-
Speeches and struggles between the two authorities become a constant phenomenon. Field of ekeploz-
Tation is served by all the “motivating energy” of society, i.e. all excess assets
ties absorbed by society from nature, over its labor and costs; this is
| No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. 17

a

the same sum of the same real things—;surplus product, “—
from which both ruling classes are blackened; the more they take,
the less is left for others. This is quite definitebicentricity; it once
spirals into chronic, increasing disorganization, into worsening
struggle, even to the point of exterminating civil strife; this happened in the late feo-
distant era in many countries—Europe, East Indies, Palestine, Japan
etc. The solution is true unity of center, the transition of dominance to one
side, subordination to the other; the fuller and more consistent it is, the more perfect
It is safe and reliable to stop disorganization.

We must remember that internal contradictions, no matter how significant,
may not interfere with the system’s existence, and even progress, if only
its organization outweighs these contradictions. Therefore there is also no
there are few two-centred and multi-centred egresions that are preserved and
are developing. There are especially many of them in the field of life, spontaneous and social.

A striking example of the most complex multicentricity is the economy of old capital.
list society. Each of its constituent complexes - enterprises
has its own special center in the person of the owner, entrepreneur, individual
dual or collective. Specific activities organized in
different enterprises, partly different, partly the same. They are different
since there is a social division of labor, separate types of work
production activities aimed at developing certain special
products; they are the same, since in each such industry there is more than one,
and several or many competing enterprises, and then since
all enterprises are connected by the market into one common field of exploitation, where
all types of labor activities appear in the same form of values.
From here follows the constant economic struggle that characterizes capital
Talism, and with it the corresponding waste of society’s forces: that chronic, temporary
exchange, an aggravating disease, which was already recognized by the bourgeois
science. And despite this, capitalist society not only preserves
elk, but developed quickly because its total amount of organization
far outweighed the disorganizing moments. However, this is relatedno
can be held indefinitely: sooner or later, systemic contradictions
are intensifying. to the point that they outweigh the organizational link; then I should
a crisis will occur, leading either to its transformation or to disintegration,
crash.

Capitalism has experienced similar crises more than once and emerged from them
partially transformed, entered new and new phases of its development.
But the polycentricity remained, although the number of centers decreased; and again dis-
organizing forces grew until a new crisis. It turned out that
with a smaller number of centers, economic contradictions may not develop
less sharply, and generally speaking, even sharper. In the initial phases of the industrial
capitalism, when there were a lot of small and medium-sized enterprises,
poor competition was much weaker, and general production crises
not observed; when large enterprises began to dominate, competition
intensified and general crises emerged; when dozens, hundreds of enterprises
began to unite into syndicates or merge into trusts, the struggle became even more
more cruel, & the waste of strength in it is even more significant; when
groupings of financial capital, connecting thousands and thousands of enterprises,
swept the entire capitalist world, then things reached unprecedented depths.
side crisis - world war, with its colossal disorganization of forces
humanity.

This seems at first glance to be some kind of tectological para-
doxom: if deviation from single-centeredness gives rise to disorganization, then,
It would seem that the more centers, the greater it is, the closer to their unification,
the less it is. But the matter is explained simply if we take into account the general
the meaning of egression. It concentrates activities. If the number of centers
decreases, but the system itself remains in the same size or grows -

Iroletarian culture. No. 17-19. 2
18, PROLETARIAN KUL] HURRAY. No. 17—19

#
as it is under capitalism, which means there is activity in it, here it is
socio-economic—are concentrated more and more, become relative
definitely more intense. And whereorganization here depends on the fact that, with independent
The costs of individual centers and the activities they organize are not coordinated,
and can collide with each other. It is clear that collisions of activities
more concentrated, i.e. more significant and intense, capable
give rise to more acute, deeper disorganization. 'Tektologically
this is quite similar to what would happen if a spontaneous movement struck
huge blocks against each other, instead of many small bodies, of which
they were formed.
Based on the principle of unity of center, it is easy to once again illustrate the practical
social significance of organizational science. In the history of Russian social democracy
there is an example of a naive violation of this principle, which led to considerable
` harmful consequences. At the 1903 congress, the leadership of the party was entrusted
°to two centers at once, the editorial office of the central body and the central committee
theta. Of course, this was done for various political reasons,
arising from the grouping of forces at the congress; but what matters is what you thought
research in advance and discuss the organizational results of 'this' decision,
If the question had been posed this way, then ‘it would have been easy to find out that this was unavoidable.
inevitably competing institutions, because their field of activity was intended
It is, in general, the same thing: its main content was
in the political leadership of the party. There was a vague, inertial consciousness,
‘what’ needs to differentiate the roles so that one center. organized some
activities, another - others: “literary” and “practical”; but the most
a moderate 'organizational analysis would show that literary activities
ties serve only ‘to organize the same practical activities, and
they cannot create a special system; and the historical experience of feudalism with its
struggle between the “spiritual” and “secular” centers. would be a sufficient warning
marriage. Dual-centredness greatly aggravated the internal struggle of two barely
simmering in the party of currents, with a great waste of forces that were needed
for the external struggle, and helped split the party. In view of thisheavy
experience, it was unanimously rejected two years later; but the same thing, it’s huge
beneficial for the business, could have been done from the very beginning if par-
tiya was organized according to scientific and organizational principles, based on the past
tectological experience of mankind, and not by groping, through intinkive
attempts, through discarding ‘forms that have already turned out to be unsuccessful and
managed to cause harm.

Similar mistakes on the part of individuals and entire teams,
are always possible and will be repeated as long as the organizational consciousness of people
remains not formalized into an exact and rigorous science:

We mentioned the world masiipap egressiya. At the same time we found out
the inevitable limitation of each given egression. There is no contradiction here
if we take into account that the scale is related to our world and to the field
labor and experience of mankind: this field, continuously unfolding, in every
this time remains limited. World egression is a connection
humanity and external nature. The human collective, in all its glory,
tactics and cognition, acts as an organizational center for the rest of the
childbirth: he “subdues” her; over her, to the best of his strength and experience, “rules”,
"dominates". These expressions are metaphors taken ‘from social life,
from authoritarian forms; but here the real connection is expressed: in work and
thinking, a world egress is being built, the boundaries of which are constantly expanding
swear.

Humanity is in a “struggle” with nature; this is also a metaphor
expressing a disorganizational relationship; since it exists, egress
This, of course, is not the case, because there is no single system. But since labor
the collective “conquers” nature, it masters its various activities,
concentrating them, as 660and activity, becomes for the “defeated” companies
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 19

complexes of nature as a central, defining complex: here is a single system
is formed, it is egression, and what is especially important, chain,
Other animals, in their struggle for life, also master various

nym akactivities and resistances of the environment: they build houses,
make supplies, etc. But animals do not succeed in what man succeeded, and
what constitutes its main difference among the animal world: to make this
chain egression - mastering certain complexes of external activities,
through them to dominate others. This is the objective
the real meaning of using tools. UKivotnoe organizes elements of the environment for itself
only through the organs of your body; a person with the help of control organs
influences with tools, with the help of tools, with other external objects: in egress
and one more link has been added. The result is its enormous expansion, exit
from those limits that are placed on animals by the limitations of their organs.

In this regard, humanity has experienced one grandiose revolution,
namely, the transition from manual production to machine production. During manual labor
tools are controlled directly by the organs of the human body, and thus
thus the number of guns in action cannot exceed known limits,
on which then depend the limits of human “power over nature.”
In machine production between the human hand and the working tool
a new link of egression—mechanism—is introduced. This also achieves a new expansion
egression, and especially significant: the mechanism is free from biological
skaya limitation of body organs, and can immediately control indefinitely
a large number of tools. Then, egression unfolds in the form of a chain
‘mechanisms, some of which activate or regulate others.
Thus, machine technology creates conditions for unlimited possibilities
growing concentration of natural activities at the disposal of human beings
tstva - to organize the world under his rule.

3. Origin and significance of degreesia. {

In the previous section, we have already encountered the concept more than once
organizational flexibility. It means a mobile, flexible character
connections of the complex, ease of rearrangement of its elements. It has a huge
significant importance for organizational development. The more plastic the complex, tI eat
more combinations are formed in it under any conditions that change it,
the richer the selection material, the faster and more complete its adaptation to
these conditions. For example, concentrating activities to those points where it
required by the law of least, i.e. where, let’s say, external influences -
threaten to destroy part of the complex, which is only possible with proper
its plasticity. If life conquers dead nature, if tender
the human brain dominates fire and steel, it is thanks to
its plasticity. The plasticity of living protoplasm is the basis of all biological
gical and social development.

Tectological progress based on plasticity leads to more complex
development of organizational forms, because adaptations to new ones accumulate in them
and new, changing conditions. Complication, in turn, is beneficial
for the development of plasticity, as it increases the richness of possible combinations
binations. Therefore, in general, the higher the organization, the more complex it is, and
more plastic.

“But there is another side here: in parallel with these positive
traits increases one, also very important, negative property: “tender”
ity" or "vulnerability" of the organization. The mobility of elements allows
relatively easy destruction of connections between them; and the complexity of the internal
Their equilibrium of the system also means their comparative instability.
A striking illustration is the human brain. This is the most highly organized
the largest of biological complexes, the most complex, the most plastic, -
but also the most tender; he gets disorganized by the most insignificant things
harmful influences, once they find access to it.

2*
20 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

Here we have one of the most typical tectological contradictions:
an increase in organization in one area is achieved due to its
reductions for others. From the contradiction the task itself follows, which
paradise and should be addressed by organizational development; the task, of course, is
objective sense of the word, meaning precisely the necessary line of development.
Let's explain this more specifically.

Let there be a living free cell in the aquatic environment, an organism from
number of protozoa, a microscopic lump of protoplasm in a mobile equi-
weight with its environment. Equilibrium is freed to metabolism and energy.
The cell assimilates some materials from the outside and secretes others. These last
generally designated as “skeletal” products; they are the result of decay
tissues of the cell itself and waste from the processing of environmental elements captured by it.
Some of these skeletal products are directly harmful to the cell, “toxic”,
destroy it if they accumulate in it or in contact with it; other
some are more or less neutral; All of them are generally characterized, of course,
lower organization compared to protoplasm. Products more
neutrals can temporarily accumulate around the cell, or even inside
her, without much harm to her. With its lower level of organization, some
some of them may turn out to be much more durable in relation to
many destructive effects on cells. If these influences
bumping into them, thereby paralyzing and the cells do not reach, then
for her this is a direct life advantage, and the selection processes will proceed in
such a direction that such skeletal products to a certain extent
held in connection with the cage. For example, if in an aqueous environment there is a dissolved
lime salts, then the cell, releasing carbon dioxide during its respiration,
inevitably deposits carbonated lime inside and around itself; this lime`
can serve as protection for the cell, forming an external skeleton, or increasing
improve the mechanical stability of its shape by depositing inside. And so it was
calcareous skeletons of many rhizomes were called, for example, those of which
consist of chalk layers, as well as the skeletons of some polyps and very
many shellfish. In other cases, other secretions play a similar role.
substances: fiber that forms the outer shell of most plants
body cells, silica in some protozoans, chitin in crayfish, spiders,
insects, etc.

A person has an exoskeletonom from the horny tissue of the epidermis and
` underlying fibrous skin tissue, and an internal skeleton of bones—
spine and others. The first protects the body from most harmful physical
chemical and chemical influences, the second gives it a general mechanical
sustainability. But one should not think that these are fundamentally different
organizational ‘devices: their role is essentially homogeneous. If on
the body is acted upon, for example, by mechanical forces tending to tear or deform
to alter, to bring its tissues into an abnormal position, then these forces are in the wind.
They expect resistance first in the skin with its epidermis; when will it be
is not enough, then thanks to the elasticity of the skin and the softness of the tissues under
by it, these forces, not yet breaking the bonds of the weavers, but only deforming them, re-
given to the internal, bony skeleton, the hardness of which is usually
and paralyzes, continuing the function of the external, cutaneous skeleton. Different
In animals, both skeletons vitally replace each other; for example, at
insects have a higginal shell; in most mollusks the shell makes
redundant internal skeleton; but the cuttlefish has it—that’s what it’s called. "bone"
ve, consisting of carbonated lime, and not of phosphoric acid, like ours
bones; in essence, it is an inner shell instead of an outer one, just like that
It also gives the soft body of the mollusk resistance to prosthetics that are deforming or disintegrating.
tearing it up. impacts,

Note that we now used the words “internal” and “external”
in their ordinary, spatial sense; but for tactology, the science of organiza-
nizational relations, their meaning must inevitably be different. Mi zroby
No. 17—19 _ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 21

different diseases are spatially located inside the body, tectologically
ovi are a force external to him, for they are not attached to his organization.
belongs, this is another, alien to him and fighting with him organizational
form. On the contrary, if several workers work with one machine,
then for their system of cooperation the attitude towards this machine, which is connected
calls them together, there is an internal connection of the system, xalthough it is a relationship
to a spatially external object. And from this point of view of space
Actually, the internal skeleton is, of course, a defense against external disorganization
lowering influences.

Further, there is also no reason to tectologically oppose
defensive and offensive functions of skeletal units. Role, half
the bench press, claws and teeth seem to be completely different from others
horny and bone elements. But for organizational studies all activities
and resistance are relative, so that between the protection of plastic parts
systems from activities that they themselves are not capable of resisting.
to arise, and overcoming their resistances, which are directly
they are not able to overcome, development comes down to the choice of point of view, so
say, the position of the one who is researching.

There is no need to imagine skeletal complexes as necessarily more durable
hard or hard in a mechanical sense. When a hunted cuttlefish
surrounds himself with a cloud of chervil liquid, making the water opaque,
so that the enemy's efforts cannot be accurately directed and do not reach their goal,
this is also a temporary external skeleton of the cuttlefish, resisting only
a special group of destructive forces of the environment, energy guided by the vision of living
Votnykh. The same kind of “external skeleton” is found in some animals.
the surrounding zone of a specific, disgusting for other animals,
groin; even the coloration of some harmless insects, imitating the coloration
others, poisonous, and deflects the attacks of many predators, etc.

This is the typical origin of “skeletal” forms in the area of ‘life’:
they are formed at the expense of organizationally lower groupings, allocated
“dissimilated” by plastic complexes. Their distribution, however,
much broader—ductility and strength are characteristic, to varying degrees, of all
levels of the organization. Therefore, we will replace the very familiar, but then
narrow designation of “skeletal forms” with a new term - “degression”, in la-
tyni - “descent down”, without giving it, eternally, such a negative
smysla, which is put into related words “degradation” (decline),
“Regression” (moving backwards). Degression, on the contrary, is an organizational form
enormous gold-life value: only it makes possible the highest
development of plastic forms, fixing, consolidating their activities, protecting the delicate
new combinations from their rough environment.

Hence the gigantic breadth of application of technology in technical life
society. This includes clothing - an additional external skeleton of the body
and the dwelling, the anlogical skeleton of the highest order; cases and boxes for
preserving all kinds of labor products, containers for liquids, etc. Here
Naturally, the material for degression may not be of “skeletal” origin.
origin, not from the waste of life exchange with the environment, but in general everyone,
which one is suitable for the technical task. This applies not only to humans
eternal technology, and in the same way to all its embryos in the animal kingdom-
quality Rustic worms, some larvae and other animals make themselves
zalcitnye cases from various solid particles that come across - sand
nocks, shells, pieces of wood, etc., usually gluing them together
are given out in special isolations. Bird nests, hives of bumblebees, wasps, and other similar
structures—collective external skeletons—are built mainly in the form of
from suitable elements of the external environment, although here too sometimes
The secreted skeletal substances are sewn together as cement. s:

As for inorganic nature, we can the solid bed of a lake
or river bed ‘considered as a natural vessel for water, protected-
22 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

giving the form of a plastic liquid complex; and when the part of the Veda froze from above -
The ice is adding to this depression. Even the surface layer is liquid
sty in general, with its special mechanical properties that make it
like a stretched elastic film, performs a similar function; for
a single drop of water, it forms a kind of invisible vessel, defining
forming and, to a certain extent, protecting its form.

An extremely important and interesting caseay degrebsia represent different things
kind of symbols, in particular the most typical and widespread
ny - word, the Word is a kind of center that unites the whole
a series of ideas, a whole “association” of them; for example, the word “man” connects
together for our psyche whole thousands, perhaps millions, are predicted
ideas about people, existing, past or future, taken into account
at various stages of their development, under various conditions. This
center,’ but not aggressive; its unifying role is not based on the highest
its organization, but on its greater stability and strength. Predeta-
phenomena, mental images of memories with their derivative complexes,
grouping in masses, sometimes literally uncountable, in associations “by similarity”
", mutually influencing each other and mixing, they themselves have a ten-
tendency to dissolve in the psychic environment. Again and again emerging among
others, they are reproduced incompletely each time, with variations; their chains then
and the matter is intertwined; their accumulation would finally result in complete
wildly tangled, chaotic fabric, if they had not been tied up and held back
stable, strong complexes lived in separate groups: words, & also
other symbols, such as scientific signs and diagrams, images of art, etc.

The symbol-complex is generally no more highly organized than any
from the ideas combined by him; you just have to compare at least the same
the word “man” with a specific mental image of a person. And wrong
it would be to say that it “determines” the changes associated with it
statements; this no longer exists because the word is incomparably less changeable,
less plastic than them; and so are the other symbols. This is exactly the point
stability: symbols fix, i.e. bind, hold and protect
from the disintegration of the living, plastic fabric of living images, completely analogous
gical to the way the skeleton fixes the living, plastic tissue of colloidal
proteins of our body.

It is usually said about symbols that they “express” their content.
tion. The term "express" is aboutrefers to a specific social connection: connection
mutual understanding, i.e., psychic communication, transmission of all kinds
experiences between members of a social whole; using symbols, ‚0с0-
Especially words, people communicate them to each other. And indeed, it happened.
The origin of symbols is social: it is the social need to consolidate
research, recording of labor experience was the starting point of their development.
It is quite natural and understandable that only the fixed material of experience
can be transmitted from person to person and stored in a community; and with
on the other hand, only social consolidation and collective storage
experience and its forms introduces it into the field of science, any science in general, and in particular—
tectology: fixation and storage of a purely individual would have an inevitable
inevitable end in the death of the organism.

Interestingly, the main group of these forms of degradation, words, occurred
also from the peculiar “waste” of human development. According to the genius
According to the theory of Ludwig Noiret, the “primary normies” of speech were labor
interjections, involuntary screams that accompanied the collective action:
these screams themselves were a clear designation for everyone
official labor acts. So, for example, we, without seeing, even behind the wall,
workers, but hearing the sound “uhh” escaping from them, you would have guessed that
they are pulling something with effort, or, on a ship, they would understand by the sound of “gop-la”
that sailors are lifting something heavy; this clarity was the original
point of development of such sounds into words, into elements of speech. But similar
No. 17-19 - PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 23

interjections are generated, in essence, by “superfluous”, “unnecessary” muscular
contractions: except for those muscles that, in fact, work for
practical purpose, are reduced. still others - vocal cords, muscles
pharynx, tongue, lips, etc., as a result of which exhaled from. chest air at-
goes into a very specific sound vibration, which is perceived
everyone around. Physiology reveals that such “extra” contractions
meetings happen at any time- any significant effort: they are the result -
tat “irradiation” of nervous excitation in the motor centers of the brain, i.e.
that this excitement is not limited to the main working
trami, spreads from them along associative side paths to other
gie, close enough. Irradiation affects one or another muscle:
when lifting heavy weights, the face becomes distorted and the legs tremble; when peeing
children who are unaccustomed to him stick out their tongues; during gymnastics
pulling yourself up on your arms, legs twitching, etc.; sound refs
Lexes are just a special case. All this, of course, is an unnecessary waste of active
body; and in general, the process of development discards them, or rather, its own
dit to a minimum: so-called purity or clarity of movements, in gymnastics
or in work, what it comes down to is that only those muscles contract,
which are actually necessary to complete the task; reflexes irra-
diations are discarded as skeletal elements are discarded. But how
we see; in the social development of people, part of these reflexes, namely sound
high, is used to consolidate the experience of labor processes, experience of movement
atelic efforts, which is the basis of all experience in general.

Let us take, as an illustration, the Aryan root “Ki” or “zki”, from which
both in Russian and in Latin, c. German and other related languages pro-
a lot of words came out. meaning “to dig” and different approaches to it
schi. Its beginning was probably the sound that escaped from the worker when
pressing your chest on some primitive digging tool,
prototype of a spade. Even then, this one “word” was used many times
unusual work reactions. Performing the act of digging for each worker,
obviously changed as it was improved; and for different people
it was in general even more different. But then the same word. meant
everything that was capable of causing a living “motor predisposition” in a person
knowledge about the act of digging: not only its execution by the mentioned alleged
a tool; in any digging, evenkami, consisting of completely different
movements; then scraping out a cavity in a piece of wood or stone (word
“scrape” not for nothing the same root); further, similar’ non-human work,
a mole or shrew; further, the digging tool itself; dug. Earth; cave,
at least of natural origin, etc. With childhood impulsiveness.
savage, it was enough to have any of these perceptions or even a living
ideas about something like that to evoke in the brain an involuntary
the impulse to the act of digging, and with it the impulse to utter the “word,” is in this.
its primitiveness. form.

It’s clear how “fierce” it was, more stable than the “content” that
it was recorded. Still, this was, of course, only relative stability.
The neuromuscular reaction itself that forms the word does not occur absolutely
the same way every time, but under different conditions with known changes,
why do the sounds of words change; everything is based on such variability
historical development of languages: selection works this way; what determines
a permanent change in the primary root is associated with a specific change
a complex of ideas that is “expressed” by it. The degree of that and
other variability - for a word it is much less than for a fixed word
spitting content; and this. and is required for regression 1).

*) When the neuromuscular reaction of a word occurs to a weakened degree, sounds
may not work out at all: the word is not “pronounced”, but only “thought”, it is inaccessible
to other people. Thinking is inner speech. Its element—“concepts”—also follows
green; degressive, “skeletal”. :
24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

The most extensive and at the same time the most plastic system with which
cognition can deal; it is a system of experience in its living, unfolding
as a whole: the whole sum of things' and images accessible to the work and thought of mankind,
his organizing efforts. The content of this system is constantly changing:
Every moment introduces new combinations of activities into the field of experience, taking away non-
which are from the previous ones. "External environment" isth system—everything unattained and not
known, everything that lies beyond human effort, perception, calculation,
foresight; in the collective struggle against this environment, in the process of its successive
physical conquest, our “world”, our physical and mental experience grows,
as a whole. And you can never foresee either the size or the meaning. that
new, what its further expansion will bring: what elemental forces will enter
heels in the field of labor, to what elements the research will reach, what will be created
combinations and forms. It is clear that for such a system, regression is necessary - money
a system that would be capable of recording both the old and the new, which would not
allowing the entire content of our experience to blur into the ‘boundlessness-indefinition’
division, itself would expand with it, indefinitely and unlimitedly,
‘as far as required. These are precisely the world forms. Ask
natural grid and ladder of time.

Space forms, as it were, an inextricable network of threads, conceivable
lines running in three main directions (depth, width and height)
and constantly intersecting with each other. The loops of this fabric contain
thereby obtaining a certain position, all kinds of things and images,
like on a map, geographical images in the loops of a graded network. Time
appears as a continuously ascending staircase with countless
steps-moments; each of them serves as a support for consolidating the fact
tov, events. What is not assigned to this grid and this ladder is lost to
human experience, blurring and disappearing irrevocably, ‘like forgotten dreams-
visions.

To reach a global scale, both depressions must
expand unlimitedly. How is this done? By periodically
Noya structure, i.e. monotonous repeatability of relationships. Two adjacent
the loops of the spatial network are interconnected in exactly the same way as
any two other adjacent loops; two successive steps of a staircase
time - quite the same as any two other consecutive
steps. With this form of organization newe ‘and new links can e-
pour towards her endlessly in all directions.

But from here another, special uncertainty and non-
sustainability. Monotonous, repeating relationships are in themselves indivisible.
a face for human consciousness; and if they are mixed for him,
then the plastic content of experience associated with them must also be mixed,
blur. Consequently, for this world degradation we need another
gaya, which would fix it, give it strict certainty, depression.
higher order. `If space and time are the kelet of living experience, then it
you need a backbone. It is necessary that in space there be stable, non-
moving lines, in. time—firmly established moments, from which
one can proceed by relating. to them, as if securing all others with them. It's true
called world coordinates of space and time; these are, for example, usually
daily experience of the lines of north - south, east - west, top - bottom, moment
“The Nativity of Christ” or another “era”. Strictly scientifically establishes
nal coordinates astronomy; for her, the fixed sky serves as a solid base -
ny stars and the correct movements of cosmic bodies. In the memory of mankind
the outlines of the constellations have not yet had time to change noticeably - so insignificant, huge...
from our point of view, the speed of their movements compared with their colossal
distances: the structural lines of this system are practically
remain unchanged for us. On the other hand, if we take the mutual
movement of planets, sun and stars. at any point, then it will not happen again.
precision never again; and it can be taken as a definition of one stable
L№ 17-19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 25

tive point in valuing moments, in order from this point to count them in both
sides; it will be the “era” of accurate timekeeping. Every point. pro-
the country and every moment in time are associated with world coordinates
by means of measures that measure the distances of points and intervals
moments.

"Such is the scientific, i.e., collectively developed humanyour system
coordinates And their first, initial system for any individual organism
comes down to the main directions of the body itself. The constancy of these directions
phenomena depends on the stable relative position of body parts; and this one is stable
strength is determined by the structure of the skeleton; and in particular, for a person the main
nary coordinate, vertical line (top-bottom), corresponds to normal
position depending on the anatomy of the spine. Therefore, our comparison
the difference in world coordinates with him is not accidental, not a simple metaphor: he exists,
indeed, the biological origin of our world coordinates of experience, their
life prototype.

Various species are constantly entering and being eliminated from our body.
ny elements of matter and energy. In this continuous, turbulent stream
preservation and accumulation of all activities is possible only thanks to fictitious
skeletal tissues that support them and maintain the shape of the whole; without them
the organism would dissolve like a river deprived of its solid bed. To the system
experience, more and more new elements of ‘activities’ also enter continuously
from the inaccessible—unknown—ocean that surrounds it; and other elements
they leave there. No preservation or accumulation of experience would be possible.
it is possible, and it would all dissolve into chaos if all content were not fictitious
was expressed in it by connection with certain points of space and moment-
time, did not fit into the ready-made “strong framework of this world sketch”
flight fabric, more durable than steel and diamond, for all its “ideality”
buildings.

4. Development and contradictions of degreevia.

We explore the typical course of development of degressive systems. Each one is like this
the system consists, as it turns out, of two parts: higher organized, but
less resistant to some destructive influences;
We will designate it as “plastic”—and lower organized, but more stable.
chivoy; Let's call it “skeletal”. Let the whole system be in general condition
viya positive selection; How will her changes proceed then?

If there are no special conditions,especially favorable for
skeletal part, then, obviously, the processes of growth and complexity will be stronger
and be more quickly accomplished in the plastic part, as it is higher organized, more
capable of assimilation; skeletal, less capable of it, must then
fall behind Their previous balance, therefore, is disturbed: the “skeleton”, connected
calling on the plastic part of the system, ‘seeks to keep it within its
form, and thereby retard its growth, limit its development.

This theoretical conclusion is fully justified in reality;
examples are countless in all fields of experience. (So, for a person exactly
the bone skeleton is the main reason for the growth arrest of everything. bodies: when
the bones completely harden ("ossification" of the main parts of the skeleton), then they
almost stop developing; and the plastic tissues attached to them
thus they are embarrassed in their deployment, and it happens ‘already in narrow
limits, reaching which it stops completely. Brain, e.g., prisoner
from all sides into the skull, which is largely ossified
quite early, increases in mass more slowly than other plastic
tissues, although it is higher than all of them in its organization, and develops pre-
essentially in the direction of complexity. The gorilla skull still ossifies a lot
earlier and is extremely durable: it is much thicker than our skull,
and where we have “seams” that at least slightly increase plasticity,
The gorilla has thick and high bony ridges. Depending on this’ growth

me:
and

26 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 17-19

the gorilla's brain ends at a very young age, and the size of the brain
relatively less than in humans, several times. —External skeletons,
the integument is chitinous, horny, in many insects, crustaceans, vertebrates
lagging behind plastic weavers in the process of growth, they begin to vitally
embarrass them; then these shells should be torn and thrown away, replacing
becoming new, more spacious, which usually happens periodically
chesically In some snakes it happens that one or moreold olets
the shells remain, and yet as the body. continues to grow, progressively
compress it, not only without stretching, but drying out and shrinking, due to
loss of connection with the power mechanism; then the snake dies.

The same in other areas. A child's clothes do not grow with his body, but
at best, it stretches a little, and then the car restricts its movement more
niya, or breaks. Dwelling does not increase as it multiplies
its population; hence, by the way, all the cruel consequences of overcrowding
masses of people in big cities. The vessel does not increase with the addition of
liquid into it; and if it increases, like, say, a rubber vessel
its elastic walls, then its pressure prevents the accumulation
liquid, and either stops its access at a certain level, or
rushes. Also the solid bed of the river, this natural vessel ‘for flow-
of water, counteracts the increase in its mass, the more
it is tighter and steeper, i.e. the more fully degressive it embraces; at the same time
an increased influx of water leads to an increase in the speed of its flow, i.e.
to more and more energetic removal of it; at the same time, it is becoming more and more
intensive destruction of the banks, in which the counter-resistance of the systems is expressed
development between the plastic part of the complex and the “skeletal” one. Icy
the cover enhances this contradiction, making the degradation more complete, more
closed; the spring tide of water clearly reveals it, breaking through the constraint
the covering, like the growth of a snake, tearing its skin.

A particularly important and interesting case is social degression.
This is the area of “ideologies”. :

We have seen; that symbols in general, & in particular their main group—
words, concepts—perform a skeletal role for the socio-psychological content
zhaniya. Each and every ideology is made up of such elements, different
kind of symbols: from words-concepts judgments, theories, dogmas, etc.
as rules, laws and other norms; from special symbols of non-art—
artistic complexes. Therefore, in general natureideologies—de-
progressive, skeletal, with all its necessary features. Specific and after-
This is confirmed at every turn.

_ Thus, starting from the simplest, the word not only consolidates the living content
zhanie experience, but with its conservatism also constrains its development. In science,
in philosophy, familiar but outdated terminology often serves as a great
an obstacle to progress, preventing you from mastering new material, distorting the most
the meaning of new facts that cannot be expressed with completeness and accuracy
zit. But this contradiction appears even more clearly in the development of more complex
complexes—ideas, norms and their systems. The term “ossification of dogma” is used
mute to religious, scientific, legal, political,
social doctrines, not without reason borrowed from skeletal physiology: their
lag in the development process from the living content of life, their delay
The tectological role is the same as the role of the winnowing skeleton.

Dogma is a system of theoretical ideas and norms, or both together.
ste, covering some life content, a certain amount of knowledge
educational and practical material. Thus, in religious worldviews
dogma, first oral and then fixed in sacred books, formalized
studied the historical experience of peoples, fixed their way of life, the organization of economic
mic and political, even often the methods of their technique. All this happened
content of religious dogma, and all this changed, of course, much
faster than herself. There was a discrepancy between her and life, ‘iri
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 27

how did her conservatism constrain and slow down the development of life, such as, for example, catholic
licism in Europe of the Middle Ages and the beginning of modern times, Orthodoxy in
us, biblical and Talmudic dogma—still in the mass of Jewish
people. New life content, breaking out of the framework of the old dosma,
created new degressive forms for itself: along with the religious system
Scientific and philosophical ideas and norms were developed. The old dogma of separation -
was deprived of growing practice and experience, and thereby deprived of nourishmentia, atro-
registered; new systems captured everything that was more vital, and from
old content, which, thus, partly left it, and partly
itself became obsolete and decayed. For example, for a Catholic Average. sacred for centuries
Scripture determined the views of cosmogonic, astronomical, general
biological, historical, etc.; and in our time even the most believe-
living Catholics, somewhat educated, in all this adhere to the ideas of
scientific theories; the dogma of the sacred books in these areas of knowledge has become,
as they say, “a dead letter,” i.e. symbols without content,
an empty and withered shell. There have even been cases such as, for example,
it was with the worship and sacred books of the fire-worshipping Parsis,
when some of the symbols have lost, through distortion and oblivion, all meaning,
and no one, not even the guardians of the ancient dogma themselves—the priests—no longer understands them,
i.e. does not associate any, even outdated, content with them.

In the same way, a norm often loses its former content,
legal or moral: the course of life not only brought forward relationships that
which do not fit into it, but also created new norms ‘regulating all
the content that previously related to it, together with the new one, which had time to
add; the old norm then nothing ‘or almost nothing vitally connected’
wails; This, let’s say, is the preservation of positions that have become “sinecures” without
delems, titles corresponding to disappeared social functions - c.
conduct of business, formalities that have lost all meaning, but are practically embarrassing
nitive, what is well designated as “lifeless formalism”,
“the power of the dead letter,” etc. And when the new norms have not yet taken shape
fully or insufficiently strengthened in life, then the outdated can play
a very destructive role for growing life, as, we suppose, the laws
already unusable, but continuing to be preserved as a state one. building, in
our pre-revolutionary Russia, or the rule of patriarchal-philistine
morality with modern trends in the family life of working classesaces,
it. p.r.

There have been examples that obsolete religious and political forms
stopped the development of entire societies, and even led to a long decline
entire countries. With Spain in the 18th and 18th century, remnants of Catholicism and: feo-
dalism did almost what zmesh, not reset, does to the body
part of already dead skin,

So far we have examined cases when the system as a whole is in
at the same time positive selection. Under general conditions of negative support
boron, the pattern is the same: the elastic part is more susceptible to destruction
skeletal, more stable, and in this it lags behind, for example,
or increasing depletion of the body's internal and external skeleton
remain almost unchanged for some time. Also when post-
foamy decline of public-type organizations, their formal side is disintegrating
collapses more slowly than their living contents.

These are the systemic relationships in the development of depression. We see that pro-
tshvorichiyas here are tectologically inevitable, that they flow from the essence
depression. But knowing them, understanding their meaning and pattern, it is possible
reduce them to the smallest value, limit the waste of activities
kami is absolutely necessary. Here we need a formalized tectological
knowledge,
Thus, in the field of social degradation—political forms, legal m
consideration of other norms, different doctrines, etc.—it will allow an objective study
28 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

each case: what content was organizationally consolidated by this
depression from the very beginning, how much it has been preserved or changed, what
what has disappeared from it and what has been added that is new, does the present form correspond to
cash amount of content, is it planned, can there be a design
another one is created, more suitable for him, how strong is the former and original
is its destruction temporary, etc. In this case, practical
technical, science-based guidelines.

Tectological knowledge can be applied even more widely to organizations
which are organized consciously and systematically, such as in ourtime often
ny enterprises, unions, parties, scientific institutions, etc. For them, “ske-
“lot” forms are charters or rules of procedure, official
programs, technical or tactical directives, etc. At the most
When examining these forms, the question must be raised about the degree of their elasticity, about the ease
bones of their changes © further growth and development of the organization. Usually
They definitely don’t do this, and only take into account the strength of the forms and
their compliance with the immediate objectives of the organization. The result may
very serious contradictions of skeletal conservation will appear in the future.
tism is a harsh expression of the power of organizational laws that weighs on
people until they themselves mastered these laws.

An area where ignorance of the laws of degression has a particularly strong effect,
This is raising children. Here tectology should provide important and broad practical
tical instructions.

Thus, modern education introduces many ideas and
norms of a special kind that should not serve to guide its future
active life, but only to facilitate and simplify the work of the educators themselves
tateley. This includes, for example, imaginary, sometimes deliberately false explanations
advice given to children about issues that are too difficult or sensitive
questions; then many rules of behavior that would exist for adults.
unsuitable, and sometimes even very harmful. These are “temporary” skeletal forms
for the young soul. Scientific pedagogy should obviously reduce them to the
minimum possible. if he fails to completely eliminate them; and then she
is obliged to take care of their timely destruction, so that they do not
They took root more than necessary and did not have time to ossify. This will avoid
If it is bent too much, it is a waste of strength in the subsequent development of the child. ^

So, let’s say, a child is taught that he should not be open-minded,
or that one should never lie. This is convenient for educators; but in modern times
In reality, a person is doomed to death if he is unable
in many cases it is advisable to hide your feelings, and sometimes it is advisablelie. The teacher must begin in advance to provide appropriate mitigation
understanding of these rules, he must take upon himself, on occasion, the initiative to
reasonable restrictions that would not lead to demoralization, i.e. not disgraceful
would have organized the social side of the child’s psyche. And so far, even this
sometimes it is done, it is not at all for the sake of the interests of the child’s development, not out of fear
for fear of future waste of energy, but for reasons of petty practical convenience
stva; for example, they explain to the child that for the sake of truthfulness he should not speak
to fight unpleasant things for elders. How often do parents admire. honor
the souls of their children, and you imagine, in. what will this cost the young man?
purity at the very first rough encounters with life—what a storm of melancholy
and will cause self-loathing, the first forced violations are too
well-learned norms.

Another extremely common mistake is teaching children to be shy, &
for adolescents - chastity, in the form of absolute norms. This is to the extreme
crises of sexual development are aggravated: to shocks of physiological
In addition, the moral skeleton is being broken.

Education should generally strive for the greatest flexibility and elasticity.
characteristics of degressive forms of the young psyche. The means for this can be
new; one of the main ones is the early introduction of historicism into the education system,
No. 17—19 'PROLETARIAN CULTURE 29

a volume of historicism that is perhaps more lively and visual. Mentally transporting to
cultural life of distant eras of the past and alien peoples, the child is
learns, at least partially, to place his experience within a different framework,
than those that are developed for him by the environment and given by school.
This prevents the complete ossification of acquired ideas and norms and facilitates them
conversion when needed. .

Such examples clearly show the enormous practical significance
knowledge of the laws of regression. The theoretical itself is no less great; him
can be illustrated by at least one of the points we have already completed
analysis. It was enough to find out that ideas, norms, political institutions-
tions are degressive forms for organizing living activities of society
ties, - and as conclusions, provisions by themselves emerged that can
be guided in socio-historical research, and which previously
were obtained with great difficulty in other ways: 1) all these forms (“ideo-
logical“) depend on the living activities of society (“social-labor”),
they are determined; 2) all of them are more conservative in the development process than theirs
social and labor content is a plastic part of the social system; they
persist even when she has already outgrown them; and this is inevitable
the period in which they become a constraint and an obstacle to its progress
progress, so their rupture and destruction is an organizational necessity.
bridge. From this side, the pattern of social revolutions turns out to be
homogeneous with the regularity due to which the snake must from time to time
time to shed your skin.

5; The relationship between egreeveia and degresea.

These two organizational types are by no means opposed to each other.
Gom, as it may seem at first glance. The aggressive center is far from
the disease is always more plastic than its periphery—often it is even much more con-
more conservative; fixed from activities is not opposite to their concentration
niya—often, on the contrary, is a necessary condition for it. Correlative
sewing both types will best be clarified for us in cases where they
rezly connected. Of these, a particularly important and interesting one is “authoritarian”
forms of social complexes.

“Authority” is not just the aggressive center of some organization;
tion of people, not just its actual leader. We believe this case:
a group of travelers goes to the designated point behind the guide. B
within the limits of the task, the conductor is the aggressive center; its movement determines
the path of all others is changed; but, of course, if we designated it as
“authority”, this would be only a metaphor: in the historical development of author-
container forms this word means something more. Patriarch of biblical times
men—the first type of “authority”—not only led practicalesky life.
‚of his community: everyone recognized him as having a special zeal for this, he was the authority;
its role was fixed in the concepts and norms of communal ideology, in the thought
knowledge of the community and its customs or morals: “the patriarch knows and commands”; "to him
everyone must obey." Obviously, this is egression combined with degression;
the direct connection of the organization here is fixed by the ideological skeleton
volume; and he gives it the greatest strength. This gives rise to a whole series
interesting, and beyond our point of view, completely inexplicable social
new facts. .

Thus, in patriarchal communities it often happened, of course, that
the old patriarch, burdened by age, was no longer capable of leading
throughout the working life of the community, and even fell directly into childhood. To replace
another head-organizer was nominated for him, who carried out his duties
practical functions. The old egression gave way to a new one; but ideological
its skeleton is not so easily destroyed: it is too strong, too fortified
captivated by decades of authoritarian subjugation. The old man remains for his relatives,
even for his actual preemnakz, the figure of the central, highest, honor

poi,
30 - PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

the new head of the community. In essence, it is simply a symbol of community unity.
The community is growing, its composition is changing, its territory is expanding, relationships
consanguinity is less close with each generation; but while the forefather is alive,
he never ceases to embody its organizational unity. He plays
its consolidation, approximately the same role as just recently, and maybe
sometimes even now, a banner in rallying the fighting team. When during the battle
the detachment's connection is broken, then its scattered parts send their
efforts to break through to where the old flap of the burned
fabrics; this degressive association complements and strengthens living egression,
with its real center in the person of the leader. When life combinations
expect contradictions within the community and undermine its unity, then the views
and the thoughts of relatives are directed to the old symbol of this foodministries: c. present
In the presence of the patriarch, the outbursts of hostile passions subside, the con-
Conflicts and conciliatory activities of the real organizer meet
there is already less resistance. Thanks to the conservatism of ideology, the old
authority for everyone is “above” the new. th

Things go on and on. The ideological skeleton remains even when
the old patriarch had already died. His. covenants continue to be obeyed, on his
the will is invoked by his successor. He died, but his leadership, his
“Authority” is preserved, and, moreover, as superior to authority
®th successor. And when this one dies, his authority, in turn, will be retained.
lives, also as the highest in comparison with the authority of the third, which
replaced him, etc. In this chain, the authority of the dead is thus increased
he hesitates over the authority of the living, and the more he goes into the past.
The most distant ancestor, whose behests are still passed on to living generations.
leniyah, grows into a gigantic, superhumanly authoritative figure: in
deity So from real authorities, through the preservation of ideological
a skeleton that embraces egression and remains like an empty shell after
their dying out, we get imaginary, symbolic authorities of religious
worldviews. At the same time, this is the posthumous preservation of the authorities of the
a myth awaits. about the immortality of the “soul”: the soul, in fact, is what it is. organizer-
the skaya side of a human being, its leadership function; that's why per-
initially, only the souls of patriarchs and leaders enjoy immortality; and
only later, with the dismemberment of the organizational role, with the development of chain egress
these in society, little by little, immortality spreads to the souls of others
many people 1).

In the growth of imaginary authorities of religion with great clarity historical
growth is also manifested in a significant way. egressive difference, and ossification degressive
active complexes, in this case - symbols. The gods are growing further and further
leave people; but at the same time their role is becoming more and more conservative
tive, their authority squeezes and constrains living life until itappearances-
sheds it like a snake shakes its dried skin.

So, in religion with its deities we see an imaginary egression; in fact_
this is depression, ideological complexes, ‘arising on the basis of reality
vyh aggressions. But this kind of tectological illusion in modern thought
ideas extend even further, to most of ideology: it believes
that ideas, norms, institutions in general “dominate” the life of society,
i.e. organize it according to the type of egression & non-degression. Where does this illusion come from?

The scale of modern thinking is individualistic: an individual with
her private experience, Meanwhile, in the life of society, the objectively leading
the role belongs to the whole, the collective, the general social or class,
or group. Ideas, norms, institutions connect the individual with the system

}) At first, this is, generally speaking, not immortality, but only afterlife
soul, more or less long, after which the soul dies: after all, it disappears
sooner or later, the very memory of the organizing ancestor fades away and is forgotten.
guiding covenants... For more information about all this, see my “Science of Social Consciousness”,
<tr. 50-64.
Ri

`A@ 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 31

team; through us the personality is subordinated to his united living ac-
activities, their general trends; these tendencies are only “expressed”, sim-
are volized, fixed in ideas, or norms, or institutions. Yes,
the state “dominates” over the individual, commands him, directs him;
but it does not dominate society, but only expresses and consolidates. state
the subordination of some elements of society over others. The highest class is really state-
subordinates the lower classes; but the state with its legal norms
only steadily formalizes this master’s rule—represents something similar
a system of reins and harnesses for controlling the lower classes. And all sorts of things in general
ideological complexes “control” the movement of the individual in the flow of social
process of the same type, being a means of introducing it into the framework,
its subordination to some whole. If horses had never been seencoachmen, they would consider the reins to be the highest power that controls them, theirs
egressive center; so a person who thinks individualistically does not
seeing real groups with their live activities, formalized
ideology, considers this ideology in itself to be the highest, guiding
by force—takes depression for. egression.

Another kind of combination of egression with degression is a system of mother and
the child with whom she is pregnant. The mother’s body ‘is the determining’ condition for him
the vigor of life and development, the egressive center to which both are subordinated;
but at the same time it is a protective shell separating the child from the

ear effects @red; his living clothes, his outer “skeleton”.
5 of the first point of view, the mother’s body ‘should’ have a higher organization
ity compared to the child’s body, co. the second, on the contrary, is inferior. How
combine TB and other things?

The riddle is easily solved: two different tectological forms belong to
to various specific activities. The aggressive role of the mother lies here
in the field of nutrition, i.e. extraction and delivery of substances from the external environment and
energy necessary for the maintenance and growth of life; in this regard
the mother's body is, of course, incomparably higher organized than the child's body,
which is not even capable of independently working in this direction.
The role is shell, protective, associated with plastic, formative
important processes in a child’s life: they occur with such intensity that he
a body constantly changing in structure would be too unstable
under the hostile influences of the elements, too “gentle” for them. With this
the sides of the mother's tissue should be recognized as less organized than the tissues
child: the first ones have already stopped in their development, only steadily
store their forms; the latter are developing rapidly. That's why the first
“rougher”, and can fulfill their role as covers for the latter. Specially
For this purpose, the uterus is used - a bag of muscular and unified
body tissue, a complex obviously of a lower order’ compared to the body
child.

With this examplerelated cautionary tale showing the skeleton-.
the strong strength of forms of organizational thinking and their power over people.
During difficult births, sometimes there are cases when the life of the mother can be
save only at the cost of the child’s life, and vice versa. Whom then to sacrifice? How
This formulation of the question may not be strange, but among scientific specialists
shers, there was once a long debate about this, with many
moral and metaphysical considerations, some in favor of one, others
in favor of another solution. The reason is now clear to us; it lies in
narrowed, one-sided thinking of specialists; exactly, part of them
saw the systemic relationship between mother and child only from the point of view of degression
these, the other saw egression. For the latter, the mother was a person, and
child-fetus; for the first, the mother is a vessel containing what is special
interests a specialist obstetrician whose horizons are limited to the task of mastering
the birth of a baby from this vessel. The narrower, the more limited the “spec-
cialist, the more he should have leaned towards the second solution.
32 _ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. _ No. 17—19

It's possible. it would be possible to give many other examples of the combination of egression with
Degression, at least, let’s say, is a ship, egressively subordinated in its
movement of the crew with the captain at the head, degressively concluding in
to yourself; like the external skeleton, and the captain, and the crew, and passengers, and valuable
cargo. All combinations come down to two types: either the regression occurs in parallel
is in line with egression, and serves to consolidate it, as in our example with
authorities; or both belong to different specific active
networks, which then need to be precisely established and demarcated. .

What kind of connection is there between world egression and world degradation?
It is easy to see that it is of the first kind. World aggression unfolds in the post-
consistent subjugation of nature by humanity; global depression has progressed
controls every step of this process, defining and fixing it in space
and time. The power of society over nature is real and lasting only where
everythingestablished and distributed in space and time; this is her first and
main fixing condition. The newly discovered country is really open
insofar as its geographical coordinates are determined, its position
tion in space; a newly discovered planet—only when established
its astronomical coordinates and orbital time; by car
can be ‘controlled only through precise measurement and proportioning of its parts in
space and their speeds in time; all labor and all knowledge...
egressive, subordinating the nature of activity - rely on the same
degressive “orientation”. In his 'conquest movement. human-
society throws a space-time network over everything that is available to it,
and consolidation of each link is a step towards new ‘victories’.

] A. Bogdanov.

`

The coming stages of proletarianization science ›.

The time in which we live will go down in history under two different
names: we call it the era of the “dictatorship of the proletariat,” and at the same time
In time, another term is already coming into use among us: “transition period.”

These terms complement each other. Old term "dictatorship"
proletariat" expresses the political facet of our existence, the new one - "transition-
ny ibriod”—speaks of cultural and economic construction. Conquest
authorities determine not only our right to build, but also our responsibilities
in this direction, and therefore with the term “transition period” we associate
already the broadest tasks in the field of economic and cultural construction
stva. In the plane of these tasks lies the task of building a new proletarian
science—more precisely, a new systematization of all past cognitive experience.
In fact, comrades, only the political dictatorship of the proletariat remains
appears only in the very first moments after his victory. Follow immediately.
Then the concept of political dictatorship expands, grows, and captures
one after another almost all areas of life: economy, law, science, art,
everyday life Everywhere there is a breakdown and creativity at once, and everywhere the old legacy
human experience,happening in the conditions of the old class life,
sifted through the sieve of the new proletarian consciousness. Our material
culture and our ideology are being restructured from top to bottom. If you look.
from somewhere from a distant star to our creativity, then the observer will show
It seems that we are constantly moving from one form to another, we stumble,
we fall, rise and move forward again in search of new forms of being.

What is the relationship between the search for forms of new mathematics?
Rizvl culture and new ideology. It's time to think about this question

1). Report; read on’ Vseros. From the Proletkult Congress. b
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 83,

comrades. Ideology cannot be revised only as such; pleased
based on the fact that it is a new superstructure of a new being. To this old one
It’s time for truth to add another; also old, but not yet sufficiently formalized -
existing in our consciousness: the restructuring of ideology is itself a factor and a moving one;
the chewing force of the restructuring of material culture. This is particularly noticeable;
when we talk about scientific knowledge as the driving force behind the creation of new
farms. ,
Indeed, comrades, let’s take a break from that very
opportunistic reality; in which we live; and let's imagine
in its full scope is the economy of the future to which we are moving. Let's quit
look’ at the vast world of productive forces, which will be the object
organization of the socialist world economy. Imagine, comrades;
a modern Russian farmer standing at his plow, somehow cultivating
land with very imperfect tools, having almost no owner."
calculation within the limits of that insignificant piece of land which he 0b=
works. The limit of his ‘achievements is in this era. multi-field system management";
applied within the few cultures that he knows,
and those few tithes that he owns. Oya can't login
its economic ‘accounting for neither atmospheric influences nor ways of communicatingniya, vi powerful tools for cultivating the land, neither rational labor systems, nor
scientific methods of taking into account the characteristics and qualities of the soil; nor finally, the connections between
agriculture and other sectors of the economy. For all this, the scale of it is equal to
The economy and its level of development are too insignificant. Imagine now;
comrades, large rational economy of a developed capitalist country
with ‘more or less accurate calculation of crop rotation, soil and climatic
features, application. new agricultural and labor systems,
in a word, with an incomparably greater calculation of the volume of labor carried out in it
710d0v. The complexity of this economy is many times greater than the complexity of the first
economy that we were talking about, and yet it is completely insignificant in comparison
disagreement with the future complexity of the world calculation, the management of property, to which
we have to move on. Global calculation of agriculture? What did this mean? I have to
apologize; comrades, for some inaccuracy: here we are talking, of course,
“world” in the true meaning of the word, but only about that little black
ball, which occupies a relatively modest place ‘in the number of crying solz
eternal system, but which we, its inhabitants, all call the world. So;
I'm talking about building an agricultural system for the entire globe in this
in general. Pay all your attention, comrades, and imagine how it will be
dispose of the countless treasures of the world's productive and productive equipment owner il—=
humanity. From beggarly. farms of several dessiatines, which he owns
a separate person from a prosperous bourgeois household, which he owns
joint-stock company, let's move on to these immense riches, which
This can only be achieved by the gigantic human collective as a whole. I'm passing
that this’ development, when the owners will be entire nations—those political
formations with which we have so far dealt as with the most painful
the greatest groups known to us. I'm passing it not only because it's time
mine is limited, but also quite contemplative, because in historicalcom progress
existence time of this stage will also be limited. If only humanity
will finally make the difficult transition from the sum of private farms,
even if large and rational, but by no means coordinated with each other
into a single whole; to what we call the national economic system, then
the next stage—the transition to an international economic system—will already be compared
extremely easy and fast. m
So, comrades, imagine that we need to make a calculation of the debt
deliya throughout the globe with all the huge diversity of its climatic
cultural, soil and racial characteristics. All these things should immediately disappear here
old terms: countless, immense, innumerable, etc. Everything that is
previously immense and innumerable, must be embraced and counted by us.

Irozekhor culture. No. 41. 19. $
34 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. No. 17—19

All sorts of cultures. knows the globe, all working methods, everything. us-
the combination of individual cultures, all communication routes - in a word,
comrades, the entire scope of the agricultural capabilities of mankind and all methods
agricultural. labor. But this is not enough: after all, agriculture is only part of the economy.
stva. Consequently, the same calculation on a global scale must be carried out
but towards others. sectors of the economy, and primarily to industrial
foaminess; and then the question arises about the correlation of parts and that unity
economic plan of the globe, but in relation to which the agricultural
The logical plan is only part of the whole. And how is the volume of this calculated?
whole, and the totality of methods for its implementation will appear from the point of view
time of man so gigantic and so complex in their structure
envue the magnitudes that his thought, his poor thought, brought up by anarchy
the economic economy of capitalism, almost refuses to accept them. I. I
I am sure, comrades, that many of you, deep down in your souls, look with doubts
to such possibilities, and consider them a utopia. But to call these plans a utopia—
this means taking an opportunistic pointrenia and give up social
alism, in the true meaning of the word.

“Socialism is ‘accounting,’” Comrade once said. Lenin, but we, unfortunately,
these words were understood too narrowly and too petty, as an accounting of those pitiful crumbs
which we inherited from war-torn capitalism. B
the true, great meaning of these words: they should be understood differently: “Social
ism is an account of the world's productive forces. and world methods and systems
labor“—this is the big, real meaning that we, communists, proclaimed
those who are stirring up the mud towards socialism must. put into these words.

; And if this is so, they have to ask themselves another question: what kind of...
with these humanity will come to this collective possession of the considered world
and production forces. There are different hypotheses regarding this. English
the writer Wales depicted in his novel “When the Sleeper Awakens”, such
system when technical improvements in the field of economy have already been achieved
bent to the maximum size, ‘accounting for global production forces too
exists, but ‘these forces of production themselves do not belong to all mankind’
honor, & only one sleeping man, who fell asleep even under the present
capitalism and sleeping all the time while the world's wealth was transferred to
into his hands. All the riches of the world are controlled by a handful of his associates, and
the rest of humanity is transformed. into machines that carry out their will. B
in a more formalized and less figurative form we encountered the same idea in work
takhs of some publicists who admitted the possibility of systematic technology
technical organization of economy and labor with the subordinate status of workers
of the masses, ruled instead of the present bourgeoisie by a class or group of qualified
educated intelligentsia. The very matter of calculating systematic economic
organization and ‘ve implementation’ seemed achievable in the hands of a handful
and engineers and statisticians acting as initiators and managers of labor
semi-conscious masses. But, comrades, both Ueljoa’s figurative concept and
'this more formalized point of view suffers equallynew utopianism. Pre-
set ourselves the implementation of a new economy without re-educating the thinking of everyone
participants in pesizvodstvo absolutely impossible. With the separation of labor’ from
knowledge, if it is impossible for participants in the labor process to give themselves
a simple ‘report on the essence of this process, on its full 0b’em and on the connection with
the labor of other people, that system of ideal organization of human
labor, o. which we said above is completely impracticable. Collective
mastery of the material world also presupposes collective mastery of the world
spiritual values. Both elements must merge together.

The prerequisites for the implementation of this new ‘system’ are not only
progressive development of the productive forces, not only a theoretical solution
discussing the issue of an economic system of maximum social benefit,
but also the creation of a new ideology and new thinking among the labor participants
systems.
-No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 35

Slaves of production, chained to their machines, enveloping in thought
only those few elements of labor in which they are directly involved,
cannot be active members of the socialist system. Solving the problem
“socialism is often theoretically led by a group of intellectuals and precisely led
to the system of organized slavery that describes Wales, and not to its own
the close comradely cooperation to which we strive.

The difference lies precisely in the proletariat’s mastery of science and its superiority.
education.

There are two separate things here: mastery of science and its transformation,

Upon closer examination, it turns out that the second is
the first premise:

Indeed; We have talked so far about the possibility. theoretical
post-development of the formula of socialism, as’ about one of the existing hypotheses of Azv-
The authors of this hypothesis make 2 assumptions:

1) What's the problem, this can be solved by a group of theorists, as a theoretical
fetic problem and 2) that it can be solved by Ok science
without internal transformation of science itself.

We have already seen that the first: the assumption, ifif it turned out to be true,
would lead to a completely wrong solution to the problem: to new forms of class
new domination, & not to the system of labor equality. But: neither is the second. could
would lead us to the desired outcome. Modern science, despite
all its brilliant conquests are still the science of “fragmented experience”,
kaki spicy; who created it. She grew up on individual decisions. pro-
problems and creating isolated, self-sufficient ones. systems, because they are. were
tasks given to her by the technical progress of capitalism,

Capitalism ‘created well-organized systems within individual
ny enterprises or group enterprises, but not. could, by its very nature,
move towards harmonizing these systems into a single economic and cultural
system. Certain branches of production were not harmonious systems for him.”
mothers of pre-prints, and the economy was not for him an integral system of production
production and labor methods. That accounting of the world productive forces, about which
rum we spoke above; could not be his task, because it was organized for him
is alien, and if the development of productive forces nevertheless fatally leads
dits to the need for such’ accounting, then. the capitalist system puts
this necessity such obstacles that develop it to the maximum’
internal contradictions doom her to death.

Bourgeois science did not set itself the task of a harmonious and holistic
solutions to the problem of socialism and was alien to it, despite its brilliant
general development of recent centuries, with brilliant achievements in the swarm:
NI partial. problems.

And only in the field of economic thought ‘a new doctrine was born, reflecting
The ideology of the proletarian class struggle that formed the basis of the doctrine of the new system.

It was. systematization of the experience of the proletarian struggle and generalization
‘construction of its ‘final results. And this systematization replaced
individualistic systems of the old political economy, declaring
the unshakable economic categories of capitalism.

The same revolution must be carried out in other areas of science.

Question 0 systemby me the integrity of human experience must be placed
next is the class that is fighting for the transformation of the public. being, in,
hence # thinking.

We cannot approach that system of the collective. world labor, about
which we spoke above; with old thinking skills. And here I must
a radical revolution will take place. To be an accomplice. another world
system of labor, ‘we must be able to embrace it in thought quantitatively and qualitatively
Indeed, in all its volume and in all its complexity. A. for. this is what we need
adapt and transform our yen. cognition so that ‚it. gave
opportunity to do this. 7
3"
36 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

This, of course, does not mean that each of the participants in the world system
labor must know literally all branches and varieties of it ‘and accommodate
in your consciousness the entire amount of experience accumulated by humanity. Solution.
the task is not to master an infinitely varied material
experience, & in such preparation of thinking, thanks to which a person easily.
masters new areas of experience and easily moves from one to another.
The possibility of such mastery and such a transition increases with age.
the formation of a common content of experience, its systemic integrity. What a person
The century must study first of all—this is not the conclusions and results of individual:
branches of labor and thought, and methods of labor and methods of knowledge in their interaction.
action and in their harmonious combination into a single harmonious system.

This is the new science to which we are moving, and which the proletariat has stolen.
Stallizes from all the elements of science that he received as a legacy from his completed
phases of development known so far by humanity.

What, however, are the organizational prerequisites for such a transformation?
science? In what temples of science and by what forces will it be accomplished?

We cannot, comrades. provide yourself with specific and detailed information about everyone.
forms that this work will take in the future, but we know one thing: it will not.
can take place within the walls of some old ‘universities with their ‘old traditions’
dictions and old skills. Proltariffization of higher education and’ proletarians
ation of science is not the same thing. This ‘must be firmly remembered.

The old universities were still alien to the ‘proletarian struggle and
proletarian ideals. They educated or narrow-minded specialists. or, people
individualistic types of thinking, unable to comprehend and build
theory of socialism.

Against the backdrop of modern post-war economic collapse, such
factories of specialists are sometimes mistakenly taken for the most necessary and
the most useful form of higher education, while facilitating access to jobs
which is also mistakenly taken for the proletarianization of science. Give some.
Some workers have the right to the title of specialists of the ordinary old. sample this; be;
maybe practically necessary in a given period; but not in:
This is the main task of the proletariat, as an ‘organizer’ class: to ‘implement
to achieve his highest class goals in the scientific field, he must create.
and their class universities, where proletarian ideology will not dissolve
in the tenacious and strong ideology of the philistinism and the bourgeoisie.

Proletarian universities and proletarian studios are. the environment where
a new systematization of scientific and labor may arise and develop.
experience of mankind, where the class that first introduced into the world the ideal of universal salt-
talents of the working people, the class is the creator of values, familiarization with the scientific method-
dology with a view to revising it and applying it to solving the problems of socialism,

From this point of view, proletarian universities and studios are
scientific experience of extreme importance. Along with © mass participation
work must be done here to encourage scientific thinking among broad circles of workers.
experimental, laboratory work on a small scale, but extremely in-depth
Bennaya. The selection of students and professors and the development of programs should
be produced. with the utmost care and in such a way as to create the most...
more favorable conditions for the experience being produced.

I say, comrades, proletarian universities and studios. Actually
In fact, at the moment, life is doing double duty towards this. the term is trampledtaste
While we have to defend the revolution on all fronts, the university,
as a more complex institution that requires more effort and resources,
forced to give way to studios, as institutions of smaller volume and
easier to implement. g

In the spring of 1919, the Moscow Proletarsky began to work in Moscow
University, but already in the summer of '19 his students were mobilized to the front, and in.
During the decisive winter of 19-20, the Proletarian University did not work in Moscow.
city, but on the southern front a detachment named after the Moscow Prole-
-No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 37

Tarek University, which voluntarily and collectively mobilized itself and
leaving in the south the graves of its three best members.

`Under these conditions, the business of organizing a university' has to be
‘live and concentrate all efforts for now on a smaller task—organization
small scientific studio, 40-50 people.

Working on such a small scale, it is possible to carry out this experimental
‘fabota in the most favorable conditions: carefully select the human-
Russian material from both students and professors. _
We must remember, comrades, that no matter how correctly the experiment is conceived and
no matter how correct the methods of work are, experience can still give a negative
negative or questionable results if it is carried out on defective
rial. This is as true in chemical or biological experiment as in
“public. Meanwhile, taking into account the class composition of Vasele-
of our republic, we can say with confidence that in every
so-called “working” audience will definitely penetrate significant
numbers of elements of the non-proletarian masses - representatives of the peasantry and
European philistinism.

Quantitatively the proletariat is now in the minority, qualitatively
“He is the organizing class of new life.

Solve organizationally both in the field of combat and in the field of culture
‘tournament’, this is one of its most important tasks. The cohesion process includes
and the process of fencing off from. petty-bourgeois elements now penetrating into
such big stakesin political and any other organizations pro-
Letariat and everywhere. bringing their own corrupting individualistic psycho-
chology. It comes to fence off in other areas and from the peasantry.
Politically, an alliance has been concluded between the proletariat and the peasantry, but in
"areas of social construction and cultural achievements of the proletariat
cannot but have its own class tasks.

`It goes without saying that for the peasantry and all segments of the population
The doors of higher and every school should be open as wide as possible,
even more than that: a school serving the producers of the village must
be decentralized and scattered throughout all agricultural districts, re-
neo-autumn to working-class areas.

In the city there should be 2 types of higher schools: those that carry
knowledge to the broad masses of workers, decentralized, reaching the very
depths of the population, affecting all layers of it, others of an experienced nature,
having the goal of not disseminating knowledge already acquired by humanity
tions, but the transformation of our cognitive experience. Usually with this kind
the task is associated with the idea of scientific institutions, where the priests of science
They are looking for new ways of it, carefully isolating themselves from life and its demands.
We make, however, a huge correction to this idea: we not only
a glimpse of new paths in science, but also of new seekers of these paths. We think that
the social nature of seekers cannot but be reflected in the seeking itself, which
Here lies one of the most important incentives for seeking; and we are trying to find
by selecting those elements of proletarian thought that will be capable of
for such a search. at

That is why, comrades, the question of the correct selection of studio members plays
the same colossal role in this social experience as the question of right-
the right choice of materials and instruments for the experimenter of the exact sciences.

What kind of elements should we extract from the proletarian environment?
to set up our studio correctly?

The most important selection criteria should be: 1) industrial experience,
2} general political experience and 3) kucultural and scientific experience,

First of all, comrades, studio members must be truly
skinny proletarians, boiled down, according to the old expression, into the factories
nom boiler, who knew factory work and participated in the struggle
labor and capital. No half-heartedness in this regard. With large
38 “PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. No. 17—$1

scale of experience, the influence of the bourgeois spirits that seeped into the proletarian environment
elements does not have such a strong effect. But precisely with a small studio:
scale of work, it is extremely important that the composition of the studio members is purely pro-
Letarian. Each of the 40 places that the studio has is owned by
the right of the proletarians, and exceptions are allowed only in extreme cases.

The working experience of the industrial proletariat is, from the point of view
teaching is a necessary element of the psyche of studio students. For this worker’
experience is based on all studio programs and in particular ‘economy programs’
mic sciences. Therefore, some general references to belonging to the lineage
the Tar masses or not belonging to the bourgeoisie are insufficient. Necessary
It is necessary that the candidate for the studio indicate exactly his production experience,
and so that the proletkult, delegating it to the studio, carefully checks it.
belonging to the class of industrial workers.

But not every factory worker is, however, a candidate for science.
new studio. The second feature is its socio-political nature.”
past, and in particular it is extremely important to know what the active
candidate's participation 1) in political. work in pre-revolutionary times,
2) in economic struggle within a factory or trade union.
then, 3) in his cultural work’ before and now and 4) in his political
and social work after the revolution. The most important thing is to find in
past and present work of the candidate, combat and organizational elements,
‘characterizing the activity of his nature and his creative abilities, C’
From this point of view, a strike or a party campaign is carried out much more.
more important than listing prominent positions heldtey. It is necessary to carefully--
It is important to find out to what extent the studio candidate is active and conscientious:
a highly developed unit in the political and economic struggle and in social-
listic construction now, and to what extent the concept of comradely solidarity--
the truth in work and struggle is real for him, not devoid of living things.
content of concepts. Here you also have to beware of negative ones.
features of modern life: careerism and the desire to rule, often replacing
“We have a desire for creative work and comradely cooperation
Highness x

We also need to dwell on educational and cultural experience. In this regard:
preference should be given to those candidates who have their own
pronounced features of scientific curiosity and desire for scientific
new knowledge prevail over stereotyped, externally inspired moments
curiosity. In this area, pronounced individuality is also
valuable as a clearly developed sense of class solidarity in the field of general
real experience. One well understood 'book or theory is more important than a dozen'
certificates of completion of certain courses and dozens of titles
books read. Even more important is the desire and interest in independent
research. This was the time when the candidate’s thoughts were most concentrated.”
over the solution of those problems that fell primarily into his field.
perspective: production technology, class struggle in the past, construction"
socialism in the present and future. But there are also cases when individual
It is these traits that are more pronounced than class traits, and when interest:
candidate focuses primarily on problems of mathematics,
natural sciences, philosophy or religion. These cannot be ignored at all.
moments. Given the presence of sufficient industrial and social-political
technical experience and such incentives for scientific work are extremely important if:
only they are sufficiently independent and deep.

In the instructions for elections to the teaching studio of the central proletkult.
which will be distributed to you, comrades, you will find a more advanceduseful instructions for"
these issues. But their essence remains the same: a clearly developed sense of class.
solidarity, participation in the work of a grandiose industrial collective--
tive of modern large-scale production and quite pronounced individuality -
duality in the scientific field.
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 39

And I hope, comrades, that; Having returned to your seats, you carefully adjust
look at the workers—supporters of proletarian culture—and single out
These are the candidates we need.

Let's say a few more words about the studio teachers. Here's a selection of 'more'
more difficult than when selecting studio students. Scientific workers of the proletarian
there is almost no origin, and inevitably you will have to be less demanding
to them in the sense of their origin. But teachers shouldn’t be
knowledge of factory labor and factory life is alien. Their socio-political
professional experience must be such as to ‘include observation
and the study of industrial work. In short, comrades, they must
to be Marxists, but not bookish Marxists who spent their whole lives in prison
at their desks, as active Marxists who studied
real life, ‘drawn into the bocial struggle between labor and capital,
It is desirable, although difficult to achieve, that all teachers, even most
more special subjects, they also had political experience; and in the present time
We, comrades, have almost formed such a college of teachers, in which
swarm all teachers have more or less political experience and
adhere to the Marxist worldview:

The teaching staff must satisfy one more criterion:
it should, if possible, consist not only of lecturers, but also of self-
worthwhile prospectors. ‘It’s a tricky thing to express other people’s thoughts, &
it’s another to be a researcher yourself, even if only within modest limits. Pre-
the giver always teaches the most through his way of thinking, researching,
analyze. And the more clearly his individuality is expressed in this direction
ity, the more he gives to his students.

There is one more thing that is extremely importantis a requirement made by the teacher
to workers: they must stand on the point of view of the independent position of the workers
what class in: field of science. This requirement follows, of course, from the very
the essence of our entire task as a whole, and yet it must be half crossed out,
for it determines to a large extent the setting and methods of fishing.

And these methods are not limited to training only, but rather to joint
research work to which teachers and students each contribute
your relevant experience. Lectures and lectures are only one
from the means to achieve this goal; they are part of the work, but not all the work,—and
even a smaller part. They play a role mainly in the beginning & then
are gradually being replaced by interviews, in whom the teacher is
a leader who in every possible way stimulates the mental initiative of his employees
chatels, giving them methods of scientific observation, scientific analysis ‘and scientific
generalizations on the material that they have already fully mastered.

The final stage is joint collective research
work that serves as a transitional line from a teaching studio to a creative studio
work.

In the studio program, we are introducing, comrades, all T6 items that have
greatest methodological interest and at the same time provide the most important elements
ments of a holistic worldview. Anything that is concrete and utilitarian
character, we leave it to the future initiative of the student. We give him
only that portable instrument of scientific methodology that will allow him
become a fully conscious participant in that collective labor ownership
the material world and her world about which I spoke in the nervous part
this report.

According to these data, comrades, our program includes the following:
current subjects: mathematics, physics, technology, biology, history, politics
economics, methods of statistical and economic research, historical
materialism and the doctrine of proletarian culture as a form of the labor movement.

This is the nearest program of the first mountain. Further, it is suggested to see
fromchanges and additions, but this will require interaction between the students and
students and the experiences of the first year will be taken into account to implement them.
40 | PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. No. 17-19

My time is running out, comrades, but I must say a few more words
©b one of the forms of work that will be preparatory in relation to
studentism. This is the work of clubs, comrades. They can get their first
the future students of the studio will have little education, and it can also be done in them
selection of candidates for the scientific studio. When putting on a club job, you should have this
in mind, Workers' Clubs are, by their purpose, general studios for
flight and everyday creativity, and therefore organizers and club leaders
should. Keep in mind the preparatory role of clubs in relation to studios.

I must finish, comrades, and... let me finish this report
I hope that you will carry out the work of selecting such elements in the field,
tarian thought, which will give us the opportunity to implement
favorable conditions, our socio-cultural experience will provide scientific
thoughts are a powerful push towards its proletarianization.

M. Smith.

Pasyta on literary criticism.

Dear friend! The questions you pose have been of deep concern for a long time.
me. You are right when you insist that we give comprehensive answers to them.
answers. But you yourself know whether at this time it is possible to calmly study the theory
tical work. And now I can’t fully satisfy you, but that’s it.
I hope that our main provisions will give you sufficient material
to resolve your “damned questions,” as you put it in the old fashioned way.

Do you remember Novikov’s “The Rest Hardworking Man,” where in the article
“Journey to Parnassus” they wrote angrily: “the critics look gloomy and fierce;
their eyes sparkled like lightning, and their tongue did not spare anyone.” Your tongue
sharp, and you shoot your sharpened arrows into our camp, True, we
many have wounded their pride, many have debunked their imaginary talents, but we have always
you are interested in principles, ideology, & you don’t care about the author himself.
But pSince you started talking about our ferocity, let me remind you of one episode
the basics of Engels's literary life. When he argued with Dr. Muhl-
Berger on the housing issue, and he attacked his “tone,” Engels replied:
I won’t argue with the “tone” of my criticism. Who took part in the movement
as long as I have; he has acquired quite a thick skin
attitude towards attacks, I assume that opponents have also grown
vu." But the crux of the matter is not in the “tone” of criticism, nor in its very essence.

We are not attracted by the scholastic criticism of Sumarokov and Tretyakovsky.
Black Sea Fleet you yourself point out that we are not fans of reducing critical analysis to replacement
knowledge: “glorious, stingy, vile and disgusting,” or “note of my patience
look at his writings." But you did not notice another phenomenon; there are people
who still look at Kratik from the point of view of the 10th and 3rd centuries, as

A scolding and scolding person. And if you read the reports about the proletarian congress -
many writers, he probably noticed that there were people there who
this idea was “deepened” by self-confidently declaring that the critics were simply unsuccessful
artists write, and that the poet must go his own way, without listening
to the voice of criticism.

Remembering Russian critics: Velinsky, Dobrolyubov, Chernyshevsky,

"who, of course, were not artists, you are indignant at this sleepy idleness
literacy, like us of course. This is where childish group inter-
"res, this phenomenon is old. Back in Karamzinov’s time, Shishkov wrote that “true
‘new talents will never arise with the existence of criticism’, & the then
Academicians removed all academic publications from journal criticism.
From this point of view there can only be a struggle, a desperate, cruel struggle.
It seems that only Hegel tried to place the poet above the philosopher, two Chopin-
Gauer attributed pure knowledge to the genius-artist; and our poets in trust.
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 41

To solve everything, they came up with a “theory” that poetry is the mother of all arts and is
the main ‘leader of the working masses, inspiresI call them heroic
exploits,

Although you, as an inveterate educator, try to refer to Pisya-
roar, you point to his hot and passionate tirades about poets, but you too
you belittle the role of the critic. I found these places. Denying Insular Ministry
beauty, being in. at the same time, deeply artistic in nature and sensitive to 1
everything beautiful, Pisarev demanded a lot from the poet. He wrote: “true and
a useful poet must know and understand everything (italics napg) that is at a given moment
interests the best, smartest and most enlightened representatives
of his century and people... A true poet, taking hold of the pen, gives himself strict and
a clear account of the general purpose towards which his new creation will be directed,
what impression should it make on the minds of readers, what holy
it will prove the truth (emphasis added) to them with its bright pictures, how harmful
he will dig up the error to the very roots. The poet—or the great fighter of thought (italics
ours), fearless and impeccable “knight of the spirit”... or insignificant
a parasite that amuses other insignificant parasites with petty tricks
fetal antics. There is no middle ground. Poet—or tyrant, shaking mountains
centuries-old evil, or a booger digging in flower dust.”

And don't you see in these. lofty aspirations of such demands
to the poet, which he is unable to fulfill without the support of science and criticism.
Pisarev was obsessed with the idea of a critically thinking person; for him a poet was
at the same time this critically thinking person. We live
at a completely different time; at every step we see how the “new” bourgeois
art, despite all sorts of theories flavored by the public,
‹defensiveness, withdraws into oneself, deepening with one’s individuality
and chasing originality of form. At times these muddy waves are overwhelmed -
and our proletarian writers. You keep running around with Pisarev and
you don't notice what's happening around you. What do you say when you read it?
some K. Malevich: “the poet has rhythm and tempo and there is no grammar for him, |
there are no words because'so they say that a thought expressed is a lie, but I would say
What do we think is still inherent in words, & there is something else that is higher than thought and
lighter and more flexible. To say this is not only false, but even completely
cannot be expressed in words... The poet listens only to his blows and new words -
Maru says in formations, these words can never be understood by the mind, for they
not his, these are the words of the poet’s poetry,” -:

Approach such a frenzied person and speak to him about what
the poet is a knight of thought, but he will consider you a barbarian, or want you to go crazy
send the house. For him, Pushkin is a master, and even then he may be a master; why should he
honor as the “oldest company”.

And he himself continues to philosophize: “I consider the highest moments
‘ministry of the spirit and the poet, speaking without words, when the insane run through the mouth}
words that are insane and incomprehensible to neither mind nor reason... When it lights up
the poet's flame, he becomes, raises his arms, bends his body, making him
that form which for the viewer is a living, new, real church.
There can be no skill or art here, because it will be difficult to
cluttered with other feelings and goals,

Ule Ele Lel Li One Kon Si An |Sabno Oratr Tulozh Kozliba Vlestore
Onon Kari Rche Kov Sambi Moena Lezh|'Tivo Orena Alizh.

This is where the poet has exhausted his lofty action, and these words cannot be
type, and no one will be able to imitate him."

Add to this nonsense all kinds of imagists, suprematists, etc. d.
And tell me honestly: are they titans, stunning mountains of age-old evil, or
insignificant parasites.

Of course, we pay little attention to this public, & if sometimes
we call it in the manner of medical exhibitions with scary pictures,
to warn young people against hobbies.
42 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

Well!.. Are you going to belittle the role of criticism now?

No. As before, criticism will direct the writer’s attention and
poet, helping them, on the basis of accurate knowledge, to realize and identify.
artistic images, formed mostly subconsciously,
intuitively, or on too narrow, induvidual or group experience and
observation. Literature without criticism is impossible. The critic, in addition to aesthetic
taste has an armed mind, and the poet, as I noticed, for the most part
as long as, unfortunately, he lives with a “free” feeling, which often carries him.
into the distance, like a boat “without a rudder and without sails.” The critic will also help the reader to be disappointed.
take in all the string of poetic images and paintings that arise before him.

You argue that criticism should evaluate a literary work
both from the content and from the form of artistic performance
opinions. This is all true. You are still right when together with Dobrolyubov
you prove that the comparative assessment of artists should not be determined
the purpose of the works, but their subject. Who in our time will dispute.
and doubt that the phenomena of social life give literary
a work of greater value than magnificent poetic paintings
murmuring brooks, moonlight, or fluttering leaves. But these are yours
The provisions are old, general and overly formal. But what does it mean
evaluate? There are different assessments at different times. Even some critics.
As they grow, they change their standards of assessment. Remember the frantic Vissarion.
In the first period of his activity, his criticism was philosophical and aesthetic.
character in the spirit of Nadezhdin, and in the second, the aesthetic and journalistic character
kter. And throughout history? The aesthetics of Plato with his dislogs “Phaedrus” and
"Philebus", in which he shows that earthly beauty is a reflection of beauty
divine and is associated with truth, justice and goodness. And this beauty
serve as a source of pure satisfaction; not mixed with suffering. A.
utilitarian principle of Spencer's aesthetics? What about Schiller's game theory? & emotional
nary theory of Guyot, who wrote that “the purpose of art is to evoke sampa-
tical emotions, as a result of which it must depict objects of pure
sensations or thoughts, and objects that can evoke sympathy, and living
beings with whom we could enter into communication." Do you see how muchto
vision for assessments. This series can be significantly increased. But it is clear that neither
one of them will not satisfy us:

IU I, if you want to know, am inclined to replace all kinds of assessment with explanation

) nim. Evaluation is a second-order act; it is possible when the work of analysis

\ is explained, explained. Don’t think that I’m so naive that, introducing non-explanatory

/ niya, I consider the problem resolved. I'm just getting closer to the question, clearer

` I put it. |

\- Do you need a point of view for explanation or not? you ask. VKo-
Surely, I need it. Who will deny this? Now I will try to explain
What do I mean by explanation and how do I approach this issue.

First, let's take a short excursion into the history of aesthetics. How are you
Do you remember, Kant was the first to declare aesthetics a part of philosophy, turning it into a science.
And strangely enough, the same Kant came to the conclusion that scientific criticism is not
| May be. Kant was convinced that a work of art arises
a genius without any rules, in a way incomprehensible to himself. In addition,
the old man of Königoberg did not recognize the general laws of taste, These are many repetitions
ryayug and still do. I don't consider aesthetics a science, but I think that general
There are laws of taste, but not for individuals, but for entire classes.
But this taste does not lie on the plane of pure beauty, beauty “in itself,”
as Kant loved to write, but on the plane of life with all its twists and turns; ra-
triumphs and sorrows, victories and defeats, achievements and disappointments
niyami. And from here I conclude that our criticism should be a scientific analysis.
lysis, scientific explanation.

Let me remind you about Hegel. Hegel did not recognize art as independent:
activity of the human spirit. He argued that religion, art and
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 43

science is the historical successive moments of the consciousness of the self-conscious.
spirit. Previously, art was the predominant form of expression of the absolute,
in our time the absolute is expressed in science. Discarding the idealistic.
husk; we recognized that the “absolute” is expressed in art and scienceke.
And having replaced the “absolute” with more living content, reality, life,
With our individual and collective experience, we are on solid ground.
soil.

In connection with these memories, I have the following questions:
about the relationship of feeling to consciousness and the connection between art and science.

You always branded me “insensitive”; I remained like that even before these
days. As then, so now, I think; what our feelings should be
controlled by the mind. Like you, I, of course, have experienced emotional distress more than once.
collisions when the categories “I want” and “I must” collided. Such a con-
a conflict, seemingly of a moral nature, is essentially a conflict
feelings and consciousness; I have always subordinated my feeling to consciousness and am convinced
that he never went against the development of life. Life is biological and co-
cial go towards the harmony of these two categories: Chaos’ feelings are all.
more and more regulated by consciousness, it organizes them and brings them into clarity
ity and unity. I won't analyze either. prove this my position.
Take it on faith, otherwise you will have to climb into the jungle of biology and sociology.

I'll tell you how I look at the connection between art and science. Science is a tool
construction of life, social struggle. and victories. This function is performed
and art. There is only one difference: science proves, ‘art shows
says: But that’s it. The difference is not in the content, but in the processing of the content:
Art organizes our life through living images, science mediates
the power of inferences and logic. Consequently, science and art are not exclusive
They look after each other, do not contradict, but complement each other. Science demonstrable {
art shows, and both convince us and direct our will. /

ъ’ If we allow the control of consciousness over feelings, then all the more not
control of cognition is avoided. art. And it should all be about
nullified by our proletarian, class point of view.

Consequently, I return to literary criticism, and it must `\
to be scientific, class, proletarian criticism while we are not yet outdated.
cla structuressovogo society.

You love to rant about the power of suggestion in art. This power"
precisely convinces us that criticism should not be careless about
what is being suggested. Nietzsche angrily called poetry fans “fools of rhythm.”
Idolatry of rhythm is half the problem; you must always look at what the pose presents
Zia: simple. whether she amuses or is a mentor. I'll deliver to you
greatest pleasure. I will repeat Chernyshevsky’s words that art.
should be a “textbook of life” for society. But here I make an addition -
a textbook in the construction of communist life.

I haven't forgotten that in the beginning there was the deed and then the word, but I believe that...
the word, in turn, can be a source of new deeds and human
feats. But this word must always be class, proletarian, com-
Moonish. You're sitting in your bearish corner, I haven't seen you for a long time
and did not ‘talk to you. Maybe you, like some proletarians.
writers are oppressed to death. Maybe you are afraid along with them.
that we will force them in their creativity to cope every time with the party pro--
gram. Maybe you, like them, are indignant at us, what we put on.
they are “party caps,” as they put it at the congress. I'll say it frankly.
even rude and harsh. No “free” feelings, no “freedom” of imagination,
as & understands it. Balmont, or Berdyaevs and Bulgakovs, we. We don’t admit it.
Balmont could say that the poet is free as a bird. But was he himself this
a free bird, dangling between Kolchak and his socialism, at least
and bad? We know these free birds well, who went to the White Guards.
children's camp from the working masses. We know why they ‘went there.
44 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

At the congress of proletarian ‘writers’ they exaggerated with great pathos
question about utilitarianism. And they posed this old question directly; acute and re-
carefully. Proletarian poets are full of fear and horror that we will force everyone
them to write poems and stories on topical propaganda topics, popular
assigned either to Polishto the front, or to collecting grain according to the sweep, or
to the labor front, etc. Here, of course; a lot of misunderstanding and caricature.
Everyone can write about whatever he wants, whatever the strong captures his imagination
zhenie, which evokes artistic images more vividly. You're slandering
our factories, forges, pipes, machines. Certainly not in one
This is proletarian poetry. It is possible, and even should, to write about both the village and
nature, and much more, even perhaps about the lilac fragrant branch, but
know how to write about all this in a proletarian way, & not in the way of a bourgeois and philistine -
<ki. The question is not so much what can serve as a subject of literature, &
< from what point of view this material is illuminated: Vayranki and pipes begin
to cause boredom and, moreover, green boredom, as you say sarcastically. This is true. This will turn-
elk into fashion, into a pattern. But this was historically inevitable, because the anthems
<waist and iron, labor and the factory revealed new sentiments of the working class,

We are waiting for new motives. Will our recognized ones be able to give them?
Ioets is a question. Not by them, but by others who will replace them, but
new motives for which you yearn will be brought; and we will accept them,
if they express proletarian ones. ideals.

* But you distracted me. I want to say a few more words about
"party cap". We believe that the true proletarian writer himself,
due to my inner attraction, without any orders and pressure, I cannot
may not respond to our fast-paced life; in it he lives and acts
It turns out that in it he strengthens his ideals, in it he deploys his collective
lectivistic psychology. Do you feel the heaviness of the air?
which falls on the surface of your body? And could you be-
without air? And wouldn’t you throw out unprecedented courbettes if
Wales has decided to move you to Mars or the Moon. In exactly the same way the proletarian
-sky poet, like a child of his class, cannot feel the weight of his class.
owl ideology, outside of it he is like a fish out of water, doomed to die, to
‘quick or. slow depending on differencesnew conditions. If the current
‘the life of struggle and construction passes by the writer, does not affect him
imagination does not excite him, and he lives in a world unusual for a worker

. class of aspirations and moods, which means the writer has broken away from his class,
>” “left him, he is not a proletarian writer.”

$] We critics never oblige anyone to write on certain topics

I eat in a certain way. We only state who writes about what and how,

and from here we draw the appropriate conclusions.

In our proletarian criticism we will meet with many: and © those who

brought to the fore the idea of a literary work, and with those who

carried with life's truth, morality or emotion. But our meeting

will be formal, since in each concept we will introduce a new one, our pro-
> ‘tar content.

\ All systems known to us were formed in the old society. based on

in possessive economic relations; no matter how revolutionary and even

they did not have a socionicistic connotation, there was no proprietary foundation -

no, yes, he will stick out his bourgeois frame. Our future system of cry-

‘tiki will be entirely built on a communist foundation, on. principle

smelled of the scientific socialism of Marx and Engels. It will not be limited to simple

the requirement to reflect our new life. It's old. Still Nadezhdin in his

dissertation he wrote: “Where there is life, there is poetry.” We add to this that

The atoricura must reflect the proletarian collective experience; our collection

'give consciousness, ours. collectivistic psychology.
ba In a word, proletarian criticism of both the scientific system and literary production
-\ the work will be explained and evaluated exclusively from the point of view of orsh-

varnish"
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 45

nization of life, and whether the artist will put emotion or “cognition” at the forefront
tion. in the image,” this is a secondary question, and its resolution entirely depends
from the artist himself.

Our organizational perspective ‘again’ brings us to the question ©
scientific nature of criticism. It can’t be otherwise, as you yourself understand-
red. What kind of organization of life is possible outside of scientific experience and scientific
ny constructions. Here I would like to use your Pisarev. What.
he demands from: the poet, I first of all demand from the critic. The critic must
know and understand everything that currently interests the best, most
intelligent and most enlightened representatives of his age and people." This right
In our time, I would formulate a valid thought somewhat differently. I would like that
said: “a critic must know and understand his class, its ultimate ideal and
where his vanguard is going at the moment.” Understanding quite deeply
the meaning of the movement of social life, the critic will be able to evaluate the writer.

You will ask why the impossible for a writer will be possible for
criticism. I think that a writer not only can, but will be armed with
scientific knowledge, but this will have to wait a long time. And in the present such pi-
there are no satellites.

I also do not forget that the critic operates more with knowledge, while the critic
dependent on instinct, feeling, intuition.

Scientific criticism will approach a work both from the point of view of its content and
from the form side. Don't think that form doesn't matter to us.
Very big. "We believe that form and content are separate. We
we fight not against form, but against unnecessary refinement, filigree,
to the detriment of content. I recently came across Zimmerman's work.
Leafing through it, I’natkvuleya wa very interesting remarks about “metaphysics”
beauty" by Fischer. Zimmerman writes: the great form is ‘only possible’ with ]

- great content, completeness of form: with insignificant content, the edges
reads with something that has no meaning at all"; Golden words.

What do we demand from a writer in the sense of ‘content ‘most of all’?
previously stated. I will talk exclusively about forms of identifying content
zhaniya. E

We are interested in the question, ‘why do poets write, for example, poetry;
and not stories and stories, why. no romance, and start to appear though
would be in imperfect form, drama and comedy? This is not an accident, that's the point.
not in freedom of choice. In the 40s and 60sx prevailed. thick novel Tol-
Stogo, Turgenev, Dostoevsky and others, and in the 80s and 90s short stories
Chekhov; there is a strict pattern here, ‘conditioned by social
life.

Necessary. reconsider existing ‘definitions of poetry and prose. Ovi
too formal: not all poems are poetry; and vice versa, pro--
stuttering things often shine with magnificent poetry. paintings.

It is necessary to develop the question of images and symbols. Still their braais
without any scientific criticism. And almost constantly our verbal images do not
only they do not organize the reader’s consciousness, but, on the contrary, disorganize it, pre-
presenting “truths” that have long been surpassed by science, “truths” that interfere with the formalization
nium of the commuvietic worldview. I have already mentioned this
pages of “Proletarian Culture”. People are starting to look at this and
our historians are Marxists. This is what Comrade writes. M. Pokrovsk: th in his military
book “Russian history in the most condensed form”: Khanimism was once a
a common belief of all mankind and still lives in the language. When we
we say “the sun rises,” then we repeat on the left a man who lived thousands
years ago and sincerely convinced that the sun is a living being, that
it goes to bed every night and gets out of bed in the morning.’ In science we have established
we expect that the earth rotates around the sun and its own axis, which is why
comes out. change of diya and night, and we cannot put up with that; so that poetry, strong
Using her power of suggestion, she taught the opposite. Such animistic and anti-

at
46 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

you can find a great variety of scientific images in every writer: Scientific
Real criticism must bring aesthetic value closer to cognitive truth
and under no circumstances subordinate the second to the first.

You are unhappy that I raise more questions than I resolve. I always
I held on, I still hold on to the conviction that the correct formulation of the question
‘brings closer to’ the correct ‘his’ resolution. :

I know that you would be more pleased to know my opinions about electricity.
cops in ISart—tragic and comic, sublime and humorous—
skom, about the relationship of reality to art, about expediency without
goals, about the form and moments of beauty in the work and about many other high
matters. But for us these are small things, and I don’t want to start with the details. Have
patience to listen’ in the order that I find most appropriate
m convincing. with

And now I’m going to cut wood, and then I need to chop it.

I shake your hand.
Vaperyan Polyansny.

Moscow; :
I November 1920

Technical and organizational beginnings in socialism
` chesk school. fe ke

1. Technical start.

When developing the problem of scientific organization of education, one can proceed
two ways. It is possible, based on the pedagogical and scientific experience of modern
nationalities, trying to sketch out the main ones in the most general terms is far from
going-guiding principles, as Comrade does. A. A. Bogdanov in his
tectology, or derived from particular provisions, indisputability or signi-
the validity of which can be easily established. Both methods; understandable, no
exclude & complement each other. In this article, the second one is chosen
way, and the guiding principle is the following thesis: }

“The socialist school includes, as the most important links in its creative
technical work, a technical beginning and an organizational beginning.”

` The labor school bases its construction on the idea of “production”
hard work"; this is not enough yet. Inclusion of general education in the school system
acquaintance with technology and organization, the “elements” of both, pedagogy
both historically desirable and historically inevitable. Our task is reduced. to that
in order to motivate this desirability and determine in advance the scope of inclusion
much new material. 1

A child’s entry into school marks a real revolution for him.
tion: it goes beyond the framework of the elementary cell of human society -
family in which his early, childhood years take place, and joins, as a link,
into a wider, friendly team, fundamentally different from family-
nogo. He is connected with the latter by ties of kinship that determine his character.actor regarding
hymns to parents, brothers, sisters, etc. Completely different developments
connections with school friends emerge; the child is first admitted to
such conditions that he begins to become aware, although in a vague form; fact
<his' approach to a broader social chain other than the family
lomu. This is the wedging of a young individuality into a new—or otherwise’organization—
lowered environment—causes a real shift in the child’s soul—a shift
‘of great importance; Already in the first days and hours of being at school,
a sense of community that should strengthen and develop over the years.
This is a sudden expansion. horizon is the beginning of the child's life as a being
public ‘And this shift is inevitable due to the very nature of the school, as an institution
the birth of the social.
No. 17-9 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 47

Great help in developing public sentiment would be
to establish a rationally organized system of education. Socialist
the school should focus a lot of attention on diversified acquaintance
nii degey with elements of the social environment, and first of all deal with
the study of the “world of things,” - this is how we designate all objects, continuously
created by people themselves in the process of labor. This introduction is for
a certain time can occur even to the detriment of the “world of phenomena,”—sub-
meaning by this designation all the facts and processes of “pure” nature,
occurring in addition to people’s labor participation. If, using the known
terminology, it can be argued that the ‘school of feudal times’ from the outside
<his: the content was predominantly humanitarian, bourgeois - school
natural sciences, then the proletarian vocational school should be a school par excellence
technical. These oppositions, of course, should be accepted conditionally,
since technology is generally based on natural science, without, however, omitting
from the view that the circle of phenomena organized by technology revolves entirely in the field
human labor.

The technical approach to school is pedagogically correct because
This type of education will not be disturbedcontinuity between
the child’s school experience and the experience subsequently acquired through school.
Meanwhile, mistakes were made already in the first steps. Indeed, when
When a child enters school, especially in a city school, he has to
same years of his education to become acquainted with objects alien to his childhood
experience. This was especially clearly evident in the old school with its detached

. from life in general and childhood in particular. It is enough to bring to
As an illustration, early acquaintance - almost from the first grade - e
theography or history. Studying geography that provides information about loved ones
and distant countries, or the history of different times and peoples—the whole set
this new experience of the child coming to consciousness is fundamentally different
from that material; with whom the child comes to school. If we talk about a child
city, then from his small childhood experience he knows something about the streets,
houses, walls, many household items. This information, spontaneously
acquired are sufficient in the first steps for its orientation and practical
tics, so as not to get caught, to protect yourself from bruises, burns, so as not to cut yourself
get busy it. d. However, instead of leading the child into a deeper
contact with the world of close things, the world of perfection is introduced into his consciousness
experiences that are intrinsically alien to him. Even in an advanced school, a child is more likely to
gets acquainted with the composition of air and water, the structure of a flower, the life of a moth,
than © what material his shirt is woven from, his shoes are sewn,
his crib was made, the house in which he lives or the stove was built,
with which he warms himself. They are often introduced to unusual natural phenomena,
rarely enter the field of childhood experience, for which reason they have to be specially
tically evoke, for example, by giving children a compass or magnet. All this
occurs to the detriment of familiarization with the world of things. Without disputing everything that is important -
The task of feeding children's imagination with everything unusual, distant, fascinating
nym, it is necessary to urge that as a result of an ordinary school production the most
close and withThe most important thing is the rich diversity of children entering the field
Russian experience of objects of technical, labor origin, on the outskirts
in the background. Meanwhile, isn’t there a curious and significant conclusion?
appears in hidden form in any object, any trinket, usually by us
perceived’ as something mundanely gray. Real poems are possible here
from. iron and copper, tin and wood, paint and stone, clay and glass. Children
socialist society are still waiting for their Pushkin, Andersen, brothers
Grimm, which would eliminate the romance of the past with its indirect acceptance
social inequalities, n, everyday heroes of fairy tales: kings and kings,
neither “them”, rich and poor, would retain all the charm of the personification of style+
powerful forces of nature, and in the role-playing fairy tales would have approached the apotheosis of creativity
of human labor and everything connected with it.
um

48 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

з ZV lack of theoretical interest in things - products of labor - on
in fact, the lordly indifference and instinctive disrespect for the very
physical labor. All the varied items that come to us from
spheres of work, our eternal companions; but at the same time they all remain
some stepchildren in our experience, We are too accustomed to these things,
their existence does not excite our inquisitiveness, curiosity, they
you know, are familiar, self-evident, uninteresting, not infectious
they give us a sense of the mysterious, the mysterious, the worthy
attention,

Only in Maeterlinck’s tale does the “soul of things” enter into communication
with children; Usually, the possible, polyphonic chorus of things is silent, and we are without
with a private gaze we glide over houses and walls, glass, tables and chairs,
plates and lumps of sugar or soap... It’s another matter, and this is a natural phenomenon:
light cloud. on an amazing blue sky, mountain landscape, alpine
glacier, or a work of art by Rubens, the Sistine Madonna,
Venus de Milo. There is something to admire here—this is nature and art—but
not “labor”. Such is the vitality of the remainderin the ancient,.barek disdain for
labor. We must also take into account the fact that the world of things with the growth of culture continuously
increases quantitatively and. becomes more complex qualitatively; we may end up in
future in relation to the products of production in the same helpless
position, like a primitive savage in relation to the phenomena of nature.
Should be moved at school. therefore the center of attention, at least for
some will rise from the world of external natural phenomena to the world of labor phenomena,
since humanity singles out and opposes itself to nature, it is difficult to understand.
is to determine how to fit into which world of things, in what
lies in the method of its sequential study,

The stages of this. studies come down to: -1) to the classification of things from the point of view
their practical purpose, 2) to the analysis of materials from which they are produced
driven: and 3) to the study of general methods of their production - the adoption of technical
nicknames Things that come into the field of a child's consciousness can be divided into
certain groups based on one or another characteristic; let these be objects
direct consumption, raw materials, tools of labor, instruments of transport,
storage items, etc. d. If such classification work is carried out before
completely and deeply, you can instill in a child’s soul skills not only
harmonious, logical, but also tectological thinking, because often
It is necessary to connect objects that in ordinary experience are far removed from each other. friend-
From this point of view, such things as a wardrobe, a jug, an envelope, a barrel, a purse
lek, etc. will appear in one category, as items for storage; cart,
horseshoe, wheelbarrow, bicycle, wagon - means of transport. Some items can
If you want to appear in two or more categories: this may help
to strengthen the consciousness that any subject can be considered under.
from any angle, depending on one or another practical and theoretical
tic need. ' 7

But such a summary study of things is completely insufficient. More
It seems fruitful and essential to study any thing from the point of view
hof the material from which it is created. This is more important in a practical sense,
that there are a lot of things, and the task of analyzing them in all their diversity is clearly
utopian and unnecessary for pedagogical purposes. Meanwhile, the number of “construction”
“solid materials” that enter as elements into objects, relatively insignificant
big; and it is not so difficult to classify them according to the degree of their importance and
and widespread. Here the analogy © limitation
a certain number of elements into which chemistry decomposes all bodies.

In practice, the first place is occupied by metals, mainly cast iron and
its derivatives, iron and steel; Weled besides wood - the material is very comfortable
suitable for pedagogical purposes, and, finally, building materials in a narrow
in the sense of the word, the so-called natural stones, brick, glass, etc.
A little aside, binders—various types of cements, Syed
No. 17—19 _ PROLETARIAN CULTURE, : 29

do not indicate with full clarity the extent to which the listed
building materials, and what should be the approach to them so that all the time
remaining in the subjects of pedagogical tasks, to avoid, on the one hand, re-
national and professional bias, and on the other hand, not to intrude on other people’s disciplines.
slabs. After all, metals and stones and wood are objects of physics, chemistry,
mineralogy, etc. It is therefore important to emphasize the special approach that
This one is needed for our purposes. It consists of studying materials under
from the point of view of their resistance to various deforming forces. If
Iron, wood or stone is subject to analysis, then such are theirs. properties like color,
sonority, specific gravity, chemical structure, etc. are not attractive here
our special attention: all this ‘remains within the competence of physics, chemistry,
mineralogy. In this case, their specific features are more important:
how elasticity, hardness ‘get stronger, fragility, their resistance to disintegration
tearing, compression, chipping, torsion or bending.

It will be a great gain if young people from their laboratories
will make a number of work experiences related to overcomingmechanical
resistance of various materials during their processing. Let the school
practice, it will be found that wood has great resistance to the amplification
tension or compression lines” directed along the fiber, and a leveler.
slaoo resists the shearing forces; that cast iron reacts differently to
the same strength - resistant to compression forces and weaker to deformation
matsiam stretching and torsion; iron is still different, etc.: natural
then you will imagine why a hammer, a shovel, an ax, depending on the characteristics
tera their work is not made of cast iron, & iron, etc. Quantity
personal effort expended will also be a subjective measure of resistance
resistance of the material to certain deformations. It's perfect. anal-
similar to how we judge the proximity or distance of a place, the height of a mountain
by the amount of effort we expend to cover a distance or
under'm. If the processing of mterinlov is then carried out semi-automatically
automatic or fully automatic machines, then a new
and at the last moment: the “pathos of the machine” arises, as if jokingly filming
iron filings, drilling holes in flexible material,
giving unshaped pieces the strict outlines of a rail or beam.
Here the elements of a ‘powerful, core-forming and proud culture’ will be laid,

“Taking iron is beneficial” not only for: diseases; length-
significant, offensive impact on the world of m-talls may be high
owl; a perfect hygiene product to strengthen the human spirit,
to extract his feelings of disintegration, dejection and pessimism. Peripheral
Based on Nietzsche, we can say: “man is something that overcomes.” In what
however, lies the pedagogical value of studying the materials. with a hundred
the rons of their resistance? Great support for the resolution of the
ny questions owls may realize that fundamentally new, original post-
new problem of education, which was proposed by comrade. A. Bogdanov;

“About’e:t upbringing personality; but its factors and taskslie in... eo-
cialrom pelo@—society, class, group Education of the individual objectively
is nothing more than partial self-education of the collective. To this person -
child, a young man - is destined to be the point of application of some part of the
environmental activities that are detrimental to his social whole, and embody in himself _
a certain proportion of the activities of the ego whole, overcoming external compo-
tirleniya. Nyodo, obviously. identify the likely nature and extent of hostilities
influences that the body will have to deal with, and it is necessary to
viva: it contains resistance sufficient for the maximum expected
their sizes. The requirements arising from this are not always compatible.
Stitch in their full volume; then you have to choose those that
regarding the most likely and significant of the foreseen hostilities -
special moments, sacrificing care for the less likely and less dangerous. Nosole
all these foresights are incomplete and imperfect, insofar as for the individual

Proletarian culture No. 11-19. . 4
50 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. — _ No. 17—19

it is necessary to ‘master the general methods of organizing resistance in the most varied
personal activities of the environment. This last aspect of the matter is positive.
sense is most important because it contains the greatest guarantees
success of all educational work" 1). 7

The point, then, comes down to deliberately letting
child’s perception of the world, social and especially natural environment, as
resistance systems; the child must learn to understand himself
be performed as a specific activity, individually or together with others.
Gimi overcoming resistance. The first step in the development of such
worldviews may just turn out to be those laboratory classes in technology
ologies discussed above. Regarding the “mastery of general methods of organizational
resistance" then further layering of technical experience will give
required material. The practice of any machine-building plant is
shows that most operations fit into three specific groups:

1) imagemetal cutting (turning, drilling, planing, milling)
roving),

2) processing of metals by pressure in a hot or cold state
(forging, drawing, stamping) and

3) heat treatment based on their fusibility. s.

Simultaneously with mastery. methods of mechanical technology assimilation
There are also other techniques, more devious: the use of chemical
electrolysis reagents, etc. a

But the study of building materials is far from exhausting the matter: “the world
raw materials", "the world of mechanisms" and "the world of engines", in turn, wedge
to school, as a phenomenon that can take a certain place in the school system
work. The world of raw materials goes beyond the concept of building materials.
If we focus on the “commanding” and “most important” types of raw materials,
then the first should include coal, oil, moving water - as a source
nics of thermal and mechanical energy, and from metals cast iron and its products
water - iron and steel, then copper; the second, “most important”, belong
cotton, wool, leather, as types of raw materials used to satisfy the elements.
container, at the same time urgent needs. It's easy to provide yourself with that
a great shock in all public life, which... would happen if
due to any reasons, the listed types of raw materials or at least one
any of them would fall out like a link from the chain of modern technology. This
could lead to the collapse of the entire modern way of life and the return
many hundreds of years ago. According to the strength of its action and consequences, it eliminates
the removal of coal or iron from modern production would lead to fluctuations
on a scale similar to that of our astronomical
system, its organizational center would suddenly be eliminated———Sun: all
the system would appear in a sprayed-scattered form. If that's the meaning
these types of raw materials c. production, then, obviously, ›but must have its own
debate in the socialist school, since in general the revolutionary meaning
school reorganization comes down to the transfer of labor methods used
in production, in the field of teachingogics.

The study of raw materials should be focused on special, conditional, technical
nic moments: coal, oil, wood are studied predominantly if
not exclusively, in terms of their calorific value. Question about
their chemical structure—the moment that determines a certain caloric
ity—and other more neutral qualities remain under the control of chemistry, as
theoretical subject of teaching.

Cotton or wool is considered from the perspective of features that have
technical significance: fiber length, its fineness, degree of crimp, elasticity
guest, etc. For ordinary ‘natural science’, theoretically all aspects are il-.
the phenomena being blown are equally important and intense.

1) See “General Organizational Science,” vol. G, pp. 196 et seq.
No. 17-19. PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 51

For botany, for example, “which listens indifferently to good and evil,” one
How valuable and curious are the roots, stems, leaves, and the structure of the calyx
any plant; meanwhile, from the technical side, all this is far from being one and the same
`same. The special qualities listed above are to a certain extent
depending on the range of sometimes very complex conditions considered
individual scientific disciplines; for our task they should be
isolated from a complex network of dependencies, and special focus is placed on them
attention. The same approach should be applied when studying any other
technical objects, with their special purpose: the study of paints © points
in terms of their color fastness (in relation to various agents: air,
light, moisture), various building materials in terms of their fire resistance
bones, abrasion, sound and water impermeability, etc. d.

Further steps—transferring technology to school—reduce to conscious
further inclusion in the sphere of her interests and the “world of mechanisms”.

The department of applied mechanics, known as mechanical engineering,
has its starting point. the so-called mathematics of mechanisms, i.e.
consideration of the conditions of reproduction determined in advance and completely specified
movements, and the design of the mechanism itselfand all are unwanted
movements are eliminated. The doctrine of the movement of the simplest machines is interspersed in
physics - in its department of mechanics; more complex mechanisms are accepted only
casually. The task, as before, comes down to extracting from there those mechanisms
movs that are of particular kinematic interest. They need to be dis-
look as fully as possible so that the main meaning of the mechanism as a system
interconnected links that collectively implement certain
new movement manifested itself quite clearly.

‹ Of the large number of different mechanisms used in technology,

It is possible to put forward the study of a special case of a flat articulated four-`
square, namely: the mechanism of a steam engine, which has such a huge
dissemination in practice. Here a translational-oscillatory motion is specified
movement of the slider along the guides, which, through an intermediate
The connecting rod link is converted into the rotational movement of the crank. Outside the
the driving forces remain. the machine itself, for kinematics purposes
it's completely indifferent.

The proportionality of the parts of this, as well as any mechanism, is determined
theorems of kinematics, can pedagogically serve as a prototype of the necessary
deep interdependence of the links of the economic mechanism. As in one,
in the other case, it is required to obtain a certain final result -
tat: in a mechanism, for example, a steam engine, there is a circular uniform movement
tion, in the economic mechanism—gog products. Here the analogy is not only
external, but deeper. The mechanism is considered more perfect the smaller
Most losses occur during the transfer of motion or energy. If you take for
illustration of a belt or gear drive, then depending on the degree
Belt tension or teeth running-in reduces these losses. "sliding"
can be quite significant. With the same right we can talk about losses
economic mechanism due to the inherent disproportionality of capitalism
nality and lack of coordination of its constituent parts: constant losses on
the fight against competition against its friction, against unnecessary transfers and movementsI'm pro-
products, and then periodic waste on production, military, revolutionary
evolutionary crises leading to colossal waste of production
body forces. Some principles of kinematics thus give the book
for the subsequent construction of theorems of political economy.

The second mechanism to be studied is the regulatory mechanism
tora. It introduces a fundamentally new element into the steam engine. Thanks
regulator acting on steam distribution organs, steam engine
has the ability to adapt to variable load conditions. Mechanism
machine, the control of the regulator turns into an organism, in known
limits automatically adapting to the conditions of its work.

4*
/y

52 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—09

Flywheels should also be included in the same category of mechanisms.
guaranteeing a certain uniformity of movement during a given revolution.

Different types of engines, in turn, must also be removed.
from a regular physics course and to be studied from the SAME point of view.

The volume and volume of this study of E engines in connection with
the general design of the academic panel.

From technology, as before, that material stands out, Bao has
general educational interest; we are, of course, talking about establishing that
minimum general educational technical literacy, beyond which
We provide services within the technical specialization.

When considering engines, you can be interested not only in quality
the main side of the process, i.e. transformation of one type of energy into another

goy (thermal, water, electrical, mechanical work), but also the amount

honest - in order to identify the efficiency of the engine
or the efficiency of the entire power plant as a whole. For any technical
in the use of energy, losses are inevitable, the so-called harmful con-
resistance, friction of rotating parts, radiation emission, etc.

It is important to give students a vivid idea of these losses, so
so that a kind of instinct can be developed in a timely manner when assessing possibleo
energy use. Subsequently, the determination of such coefficients can
prove to be a convenient form and pedagogical preparation for calculating losses,
arising in any other sphere of human experience and practice: losses
in human communication to mutual misunderstanding, ‘to eliminate aromatic
speech tendencies in the individual psyche, loss; for elimination. families-
nal, group or class collisions, etc.

The last thing that can be traced is the length of the chain during the pre-process.
rotation energy. Often this chain consists of only two links; ta,
the water turbine transfers part of its eruption directly to the working
mashiie. However, installations that are complicated by several or one
an additional intermediate link, let’s say, the associated production of ‘energy’
energy in the form of electric current, and a two-part chain: “fall energy”
water - mechanical work, is modified into a three-part formula - "energy"
energy of fallen water, electrical energy, mechanical work.” This extends
The difference between the initial and final links has its analogy in
all mechanical equipment, when between the hand of the craftsman and the tool
turned out to be a number of intermediate links, together forming
machine mechanism. These roundabout ways to get the energy you need
characteristic of the technology of recent decades, and in view of this it is necessary
There would at least be an elementary reflection in the socialist school.

Following this, it seems essential to identify for school
collective, what techniques generally are used by technology to “organize”
ization of things”, i.e. to combine parts into one organizational whole Here
based on a comparison of individual works and observations, it can be discovered
The most common techniques and groupings have been described. So, I’m wondering about the basic
different types of connection: according to the “bolt”, “knuckle” and “hinge” principle.

Essence. of the first type is reduced to such a connection of parts, in which
However, it remains possible to separate both parts again without any
damage to the connecting parts or theth connecting element. Hypich-
Typical for this case are the connections of parts using a bolt,
from which the general name for this group of connections was borrowed. To this
The same type includes pulley connections using belts or ropes,
connecting shafts with couplings, connection using wedges, keys, screws
pov, sheets of paper, using pins This also includes periodic
engagement of the regulator levers with the steam-pub mechanism, etc.

The “bolt” principle (in different ways and the other two) remains in force ‘not
only within the limits of technology, but has its analogies in all areas of our
experience: this is why the study of these types is not of narrow technical significance,
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 53

but also general education in the broad sense of the word. K, type .bolt-
The connections of people in the field of personal relationships also belong to such connections, not
going beyond simple acquaintance or easy friendship, when
Birth often occurs completely painlessly without any damage
for both sides. Of the economic associations that fit this category,
cartels with their weak organizational ties. Apparently this is where
The bonds between atoms can also be attributed. .

The “rivet” principle of association differs significantly
from the previous one. Here the reverse separation of the parts is impossible without them
damage or damage to the element connecting them. In order for the department
pouring two riveted sheets of iron, you have to cut off the head of the rivet
or damage one of the sheets. This group also includes connections when
using cement, glue, sealing wax. As an economic illustration
Trusts can serve, after the disintegration of which they can return to the owners.
their former enterprises will return, but no longer those that have changed in the sense of their
equipment, administrative staff, etc. Continuing the previous
anslogy, you can start an ordinary bourgeois, intelligentsia family
organized according to the same principle; here. the collapse and crisis of this cell
Usually accompanied by deep destruction for bothx or at least
at least for one of the parties. . |

The third type of connection, “hinged,” is typical. the fact that, despite
natural mobility of the parts included in the association, as a whole the latter

represents a stable system, often such that the separation of parts is permanent
’ }

inevitably entails the destruction of the system, this side reminiscent of the principle
rivet type. However, hinge connections provide parts with a known
independence, freedom, mobility. These are the Swazis of two halves of a knife -
prostrate, door hinges, etc.:
If a person participates in several organizations at the same time,
`_reconciles.in his dissimilar souls, perhaps even. contradictory, ten-

‘Dencia, we are bumping into each other again. to “hinged” practice and “hinged”

type of eunzei within the individual psyche.

The last, “hinge” type of connection occupies, as it were, an intermediate
position between bolt and rivet there are other intermediate
different combinations, but one way or another they all gravitate toward the three
basic forms.

—_ Thus, a lot should be brought into the socialist school -
from the world of technology. Without wishing, however, to clutter up the presentation of detailed
program, it is enough just to list in the most general form the individual
disciplines usually taught only in special educational institutions,

and which should be brought within the school. This. technology (mainly

specifically stone, wood and metal), elements of mechanical engineering (resistance
materials, kinematics of mechanisms, machine parts), the doctrine of sources
energy (coal, oil, moving water), the doctrine of the most important engines,
“And as an auxiliary tool, the international language of modern technology
- nicknames—technical drawing.
In the conditions of bourgeois society, technology stood apart, often
outside general education; under the socialist system any
of us must ‘be at least technically literate.

P Organizational beginning.

: The socialist school is entrusted with the most important cultural task
of our time: to combine labor, mainlyphysical, with science—
intellectual labor.

Due to historical conditions over the centuries, intellectual
labor is separated from the physical. The emerging scientific disciplines, having
labor processes as their source, then separated from their labor processes

2%
54 | PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

roots and developed according to the internal logic inherent in each of them.
At the same time, in the process of development, the consciousness was lost that not only
the origins of scientific disciplines are labor, but also their mouth, what is their final destination -
tion—to be a tool for organizing work and life, since the latter can be
take it as a labor process.

Machine production technology, however, is practically already approaching
eliminating this dualism of physical and mental labor, since in
In a developed industry, any worker turns into a machine driver; but
the process is long, associated with great difficulties, proceeds
spontaneously.

Meanwhile, at school this dualism and contradiction of physical and
mental problems can be overcome relatively easily. It's not hard to show
How can impulses for school scientific research be extracted from school work?
work, and, conversely, transform scientific pursuits into tools for organizing
school work 1). :

To solve the problem, it is necessary to employ labor processes, pro-
flowing at school, turn into objects of school research. So
in this way school work rises to the level of natural scientific phenomena
order; labor processes turn into a problem over which young
minds exercise their investigative and creative abilities.

What we are most interested in here is the extraction from labor

processes not of natural science, but of social sciences and, first of all, political
economic savings. y y

Since the latter is considered as the science of the basic
society, with its defining moment - social-labor relations
relationships between people - to the extent that school work and school life in general
provides enough material for constructing the elements of ‘political
savings. How is thisabout implementation and what is the approach? The solution to the issue can

be planned based on the study of the forms of comradely school activities.

cooperation. In school work it is easy to trace the whole range of different
different forms, ranging from the simplest to the most complex. In studying these
organizational forms is the second - in addition to the technical - principle,
which is introduced into the school: “organizational beginning.” no

If, for example, a written problem in mathematics is being solved in class
each one completely independently (without looking into the neighbor’s notebook),
we have before us a case of purely individual work—a case of zero labor—
goodness. Consistent solution of the same problem by several persons
is an illustration of cooperation with poorly differentiated technology
tical division of labor. :

In labor processes of a different order: in the workshop, garden, school
theater, the division of labor between participants can be more distinct,
since this or that function is definitely fixed on a more dire
time for a given participant: here we are already moving towards the type of cooperation
of a craft workshop or manufactory. This can be especially clear
appear if the division of labor is carried out according to the type of organizer-
sky and performing. This is easy to note when the process involves
as permanent leaders, and adults (teacher, doctor, head of workshop
skoy, gardener, etc.). It is not difficult to catch even the shades when they appear
to choose temporary leaders for a given, very specific case: type
organizer-consultant. :

Other events can be traced based on school life.
political economy. Schoolchildren often practice exchanging things,
It is not carried out on the basis of labor value, but this does not matter.
It is important here to trace the fact of the exchange of thing for thing in addition to participation

#) Elementary illustrations for the above are given in our brochure: “Prozhzvz-
hard work in a Soviet school." Sovereign. Publishing house 1919: a
$

No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 55

money intermediarya,—an exchange taking place on the basis of a subjective assessment
subject. Cases of organized distribution of school entrants
products according to the norm “equal shares to each” - further fundamentally new
moment in the development of appropriation: the first approximation to the rationally regular
distribution. Distribution according to the criterion—“to each according to his needs”—
may be a prototype of its most advanced forms.

Even the phenomena of exploitation have their reflection in school life,
when the stronger often subjugates the weaker to his will, and subsequently
They provide him with certain services, even if against their wishes.
If one of the students has moral superiority over others; since arose
by the establishment of an authority that is undeniable for everyone, the phenomenon of exploitation is accepted
forms of one-sided, voluntary services are taking place. Subsequently, with strengthening
true friendship, there is unselfish, non-judgmental, mutual support and
help: the embryo of a higher form of cooperation:

The phenomena of struggle, the clash of interests of groups or classes, are so
characteristic of any social, non-communist formation, easily
are caught in those cases; when, by the nature of the game, one part of the schoolchildren
Cove is opposed to the other, as a rival side: ball games,
croquet, “robbers, kings” - often with their hierarchical complexity
construction.

Cases of children's quarrels that reach the point of complete disagreement between the parties or
dazke encountered, illustrate cases of not only vulgar, but also negative
solid cooperation.

Following such a summary study of labor from the perspective of its organization,
tion forms, the tasks of multilateral accounting are put forward to the school
various aspects of the labor process.

The general labor-type school pursues, in general, the same tasks, but
not in a sufficiently distinct, conscious form. Little is felt in theory
theoretical constructions and practical implementations of the idea of ​​preparing milk-
dezhi, as future active participants in a socialistically organized
humanity, and therefore the need to give skills and
ability to operate freelydeal with the phenomena of labor: methods of its organization, .
Availability, accounting. Within the school, this accounting can be carried out according to non-
in how many directions, and first of all in terms of the amount of production
driving job. In many cases `0b this quantity can be accurately

‘to judge: carried ‘so many pounds of firewood or coal, so many bags of car-

tofley, buckets of water, etc., indicating the corresponding distances.

Often the calculation can be very difficult if the work
of a more complex order take place somewhere in a workshop, garden or
kind, because I will come to face the difficulties of choosing a unit of work.

If, by the nature of the case, the work process is associated with an expenditure operation,
tion of certain types of raw materials, then the consumption as a whole is taken into account, equal to
and inevitable losses at certain stages, with the identification of certain
utilization rates

The entire work process can be subdivided in terms of consumption
time both for the entire operation as a whole and for its individual parts. When
than 0s0bo study the time spent directly on work, then
separately so-called productivity losses due to defects in
business organization, untimely supply of materials, tools
tami it. d.

Thus, as a result of analysis of the labor process, it can be obtained
there are a number of long-standing ones characterizing the amount of work produced, consumption
efforts, raw materials, materials and time, and not only in total form, but—
more importantly, with a definitive identification of the overall utilization rate
call, with calculation of value in one form or another in a productive manner
scattered energy.
55 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19`

In a socialist school, however, not only the analysis of labor is important, but also
its synthesis; represents OO known interest to indicate how this can
be achieved. :

Let's take it. as an illustration of both, completely typical
ical case, ‘which could’ not have taken place in school practice.

Let a group of children be faced with the task of cleaning their premises.
scheniya. You can ‘pras’be dumb about this matter, without further ado, but it’s possible
approach it as a specific organizational task. Let's choose second-
rue opportunity; in this case, a group of organiza-
congestion, which is entrusted with the task of drawing up a preliminary project
of all work, its management and implementation. Provided in advance
the distribution of labor between the participants alone is in charge of all preliminary matters.
other operations related to the procurement of material, others perform
directly the work of wiping dust, wetting and wiping windows and
etc. The third gruchtsa takes on. yourself research work, sizan-.
no. with a preliminary determination of the required amount of materials,
which should be prepared. To make it possible to make such subdivisions, a pri-
run to the experiment and determine how much is spent on average, say,
water per unit of floor surface, window; to what temperature should
heat the water, how much wood or coal it will take, etc. Same group
‘makes a mathematically precise preliminary schedule of the beginning and end
works with the division of the process into separate stages, etc. d.

A special group is no longer engaged in preliminary research, & studies
looks like the ongoing labor process in nature. the time of work itself. This
there may be the same children, but grouped into different combinations. It's likely here
and observations related to taking into account all factors that distort
regularity of the flow of the labor process. To make these observations,
a certain predisposition will undoubtedly be required; ‘ability’ to concentrate
be considered, the special nature of attention, and from the tools most likely VM,
a thermometer and a clock, perhaps with a second hand.

It is curious that with a more intense division of onerations it is possible
will come across intervals of time ‘so small that it is impossible to catch them
With the help of a watch it will not be possible. This is where it comes to the rescue
tool: mathematics of a different order, in particular algebra with its methods
knowledge of compiling and solving equations. With such a casehad to face
nutea to F. Taylor, one of the first to raise vdaroe.o. scientific. organ-
nization of a single industrial enterprise. Studying from the point of view
"elements of time" work. loader, Taylor was convinced that “part of the element-
container operations are so short that labor, voligome’sonom
and it is possible to take an accurate report ‘by stopwatch’; and had to study
knowledge of the work of loading blanks into carts ‘make observations not on each _
an elementary operation separately, but cash as a whole group. Connecting electrical -
ments in various combinations into groups, you can get a sufficient number of
number of observations and equations, the solution of which gives the answer concerning
time spent on each operation separately,

Here algebra appears quite clearly as a tool for analyzing labor,
at the same time, his organization. :

An even more detailed and deep division of labor can instill
the need to use and operate “infinitesimal” quantities,
(i.e., essentially almost elusive or practically uninteresting
due to its relative smallness), and thereby undermine the labor foundation
to study the so-called higher analysis.

Ongoing labor processes can also be studied” with
side of the “movement elements”, as practiced by one of the otoronisms
scientific organization of industry by F. Gilbret,

The above points and techniques in the study of labor
processes are material for the scientific organization of the socialist
No. 17—19 `PROLETARIAN CULTURE 57

schools: essentially, in many respects this turns out to be an attempt to transfer
methods of Taylor's analysis of labor in schools acceptable to socialism
new practice. This is not surprising. The healthy core of Taylorism associated
with the rationalization of labor, it will undoubtedly be included in the scientific organization
tion of socialist economy; and if this is so, then the socialist school
_ must absorb these elements “into itself and in its own way within the school
opportunities to assimilate them.

I. Wang.

Problems of Artsacademic education

Bourgeois society perceived art as an adornment of life.
Artists were seen as producers of decoration. Academy, Pri-
called upon to prepare artists of the so-called pure art, artistic
applied artists and teachers of art were inspired by a single dictated
bourgeois state's tendency is to preserve artistic
diction. :

This was the case in the realm of what is called pure art; that's how it was
in applied arts, i.e. in the so-called art industry.

The old academic school of art was built on the study of 0b-
examples of classical art. The art of the academy resulted in art,
imitating any of the eras that left their mark on art. The best choice
samples of art that the Academy decided to imitate were determined by the idea
ology of that part of the bourgeoisie that occupied a dominant position
in the country, in other words, was in power. "Oh

The Academy, as if in a mirror, reflected bourgeois ideology with all its
shades, giving it one or another style of the previous era. She's wearing
wrapped her sitters in panpyri and helmets, put a sword in their hands and banged
wielded the instrument at those moments when it was not required.

- ^ Several times the Academy, at the request of the petty bourgeoisie, “democratized”
" The Paris Academy at the end of the 15th century, represented by its leader,
artist David, was a spokesman for the left group of the republic. But. that
The same Academy, in the person of the same David, laid a laurel crown. on the head
Napoleon, and the same David became a court painter and under his non-
‘The style of the new empire was cultivated and created through mediocre participation.
Petty-bourgeois admiration: before the individual, before the individual. heroes
and the leaders of the petty bourgeoisie—this was characteristic of the restoration era—found
its full expression in the paintings of the official Academy. r

Since the time of the French Commune, a number of new artists have emerged,
who grew up outside the Academy. The destruction of the Vendôme Column, this false-kyas-
sical creationofficial Academy, artist Courbet, ideologist
new 'thinking, a new approach to art, we consider it as an attempt
break with the false classical dogma and create a new naturalistic school,
of which he is the founder. From this time on, groups appeared
debtors who grew up and organized outside the Academy—the Academy lost
its primacy position. All newly formed groups in the region
approach to art is certainly associated with Courbet. From that time on, cruelty began
What a struggle between the Academy and the artists who grew up outside the Academy. In the distance
In fact, the Academy increasingly lost its primacy
and a leading role in art, became more and more withdrawn and fenced off
a wall from living life, from the art that has grown within its walls. Small
nobility, former titled aesthetes; debunked princes and counts became
its official patrons; even the big bourgeoisie, which came to power,
was not very interested in its prosperity. Outside the Academy at this time
Numerous groups of artists were created, differentiated into
a lot of separate, so-called artistic movements. This is the time
58 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 179.

falls with the opening of private art studios by artists representing
leaders of certain artistic movements. All this signified that the art
ism, reflecting bourgeois society; embarked on the path of extreme individualism.
Thus, outside the Academy, that anarcho-Bohemian environment of artists was created,
which we found here and abroad at the time of the Aktober revolution.
What was the attitude of the bourgeoisie in power towards these innovators?
Here we see the following picture: some side of this creativity again.
the established anarcho-Bohemian environment of innovators was necessary and beneficial to the Bur-
juisie, and each other side was definitely hostile to the bourgeoisie,
and so hostile that the bourgeoisie used umbrellas and sticks to attack you
the stakes of these innovators.. What were the advantageous and disadvantageous sides
new IParts for bourgeois society, or what individuals
innovators were the most hostile to the bourgeoisie and why? The situation was as follows:
in this way: since new art, the art of innovators, revealed ideas
theology of the bourgeois worldview, insofar as it was acceptable, but
Since it turned out that innovators strive (for better or worse, this is a different
question) to re-evaluate existing concepts about art, its form and content
marriage, since the innovators showed a rejection of bourgeois romance and
metaphysics, and tried to enter into more and less objective thinking
ideas, and from this point of view they began to approach the analysis of artistic
forms, which would later lead to a new materialistic approach
in art, to the extent that the bourgeoisie did not put up with new artistic trends
niyami, acutely feeling what was hostile to her that lay hidden in the new art,

From this side, the criticism of modern pictorial technologies is very interesting.
ideas and individual artists themselves, representatives of these movements. Interesting
our Russian critics, for example, Chulkov and Berdyaev, who wrote several
books. Berdyaev in his book “The Crisis of Art” says the following: ziskus-
society will have to create new intangible forms, must move
to another plane of the world." Futurists are not suitable for this purpose, since they,
as Berdyaev put it, “they believe more in motors and electric lamps.”

But if we remove the whole thing. a touch of bourgeois fiction, which is usually
the paintings of modern innovators are now colored, we will see under
this is the beginning of the analysis of artistic form - and this is one of the valuable phenomena in |
contemporary art. New objective strictly scientific method of approach
will also subject the art of innovators to severe criticism. Outline this new
method of approach based on scientific data the main task of the proletarian
criticism and all artistic and educational work in the field of visual arts
new art. The work of re-evaluating artistic phenomena continues
now. Analysis of artistic form, so characteristic of moderno
art is far from finished. Expediency, utility, use
mastery of the material, signs of true craftsmanship; and finally the main one
The question is: what is the practical role of art in the new organization of production?
Vodetva and society, these are the questions that need to be resolved by Proletkult
and depending on this, build further work and re-evaluate and re-
bring both past and contemporary art forms to analysis.
All these questions will become more specific; when we detail
Let's focus on the analysis of the so-called. "art industry" and we will open
forms of bourgeois life. Items of bourgeois everyday life, somehow; porcelain, bronze
and others, were to a certain extent rare; samples; were produced
in very small quantities and were not intended for general public
the masses, but ended up with individual patrons of the arts, collectors, the bourgeoisie and museums.

The bourgeois aristocracy treated those objects of art with contempt.
products that were produced by workers in factories and factories under the direction of
the number of applied artists hired by her.

Use of ancient objects of art and examples of art.
museum type was completely inaccessible to the petty bourgeoisie, intellectuals
Ligence and workers:
No. 17—19 — — PROLETARIAN CULTURE. | 199

The masses used those items that were manufactured in factories.
kahs and factories, were released in large quantities onto the wide market, i.e.
"applied art". Applied art requires mass production
stva, intended for wide consumption and constitutes a huge
branch of industry. Objects of applied art are completely
natural: spreading and, adapting to the tastes of the street, reflect
mainly petty-bourgeois ideology.

-‹ The proletariat had no influence on the methods and nature of production
ity, he could not express his ideology in art. E

Applied art was one of the most dexterous ways of colossal
greasy profit and propaganda of the petty bourgeoisphilistine way of life.

Trends: “drink and mind your business”, “wife, don’t make your husband angry”, “war of dust”
flaunted next to landscapes and with vignettes corresponding in style.

Technology had reached such virtuosity that it was possible to produce anything
anything and from anything, the design of the product went to the building plan,
the usefulness of the object has degenerated into fun. This led to the fact that the material
as such from the point of view of its strength, the feasibility of one or another
processing, lost its appreciation, and above all in the eyes of the applied workers themselves.

A large number of imitation materials appeared. Gypeaceae sta-
the statuettes of the tsars and ideologists of the bourgeoisie were painted bronze, but were not made of
bronze Real bronze was used by the bourgeois aristocracy, while the street
I was content with faking the material.

The foreign industry was somewhat more sophisticated in this regard.
The stylization of household items was organized there with the help of more qualified
fied artistic forces.

Style fashion has swept through all the layers from top to bottom.
consumer, thanks to the good fabrication of a particular style by large
drivers This is the fashion for the Middle Ages in England, the “Modern” style is everywhere
Ruesko-boyar style of handicraft cooperation in Russia, counterfeits of the East,
Japanese things made in Germany, etc. Thus was created
Abroad, “apartment life” is somewhat different from our street.
Objects of small scale prevailed, strength and constructiveness disappeared.
A healthy feeling, a creative attitude towards the material and its processing as
never happened.

T.n. artistic industry, like real art,
moved uncontrollably towards decline and decay.

All this clearly indicates that bourgeois society was unable to
approach creatively those objects that were produced by workers and artists
nickname The issue of raising the art industry and relationships
her with art becomes the order of the day.

How you approach this issue depends on how you decide: in total
art in general.The first period of the Russian revolution from February to Bktabr is characterized by
petty-bourgeois riots in the name of the so-called. “free creativity” regardless of
from its use and consumption.

b. After the October Revolution, the first priority was the continuation of work
the previous period (this is the first decree—the dictatorship’s refusal to accept art).

During the same period of the revolution, many of the artistic and educational
dentels started looking for artisans and started talking about the need to restore
to baptize and support handicraft production.

They reasoned this way: in a small workshop the artist has
the opportunity to express one’s individuality much more fully, since when
minimal technical equipment, the item is performed almost manually
processing and one person ends; division of labor; mechanization
it is almost absent. But there is a significant error in such reasoning,
which undermines the foundations of ‘handicraft production’, which consists in the following
meaning: the primitive organization of production processes forces “bu-
60 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. _No. 17—19

try to produce things in limited quantities and in very small quantities
headquarters, does not make it possible to move on to the design of structures, meanwhile,
the development of an industrial state poses precisely this task. Without having
opportunity to take part in the execution of this particular task, the artisan is always
trails behind modern technology. Because of this, handicraft production
and is mainly engaged in the manufacture of samples of lace embroidery, tableware
and other small household items, sometimes creates such productions that
which have generally lost any meaning, such as, for example, those that existed in
Stroganov School workshops “carving on ‘ivory and horn’ itis-
skin irritation. In the provinces they still organize burning workshops
tree. to

At the same time, artisans in the past, not being an organized class, were not
could, to a small extent, contrast their creativity with petty-bourgeois
samples that the factory imposed on them, and dissolvedsit in the petty bourgeoisie
nom, mixed applied arts.

The moment is approaching when the proletariat will need huge buildings,
accommodating tens of thousands of people. Minimum effort, minimum material, ma-
the maximum of constructiveness is the law about which the proletariat has to build
theirs. assignments,

‚ To implement this. tasks he needs the same thing he needs
always. He needs, in addition to factories and factories, equipped laboratories,
artistic. workshops. { s |

Proletarian artistic culture. unthinkable without a rational organiza-
lower-level training workshops. Until now, educational art workshops
The workshops were divided into pure and applied workshops. art. This is division
largely due to atrophy of the sensory material, as a result
why the method of designing one material, like painting, is recognized as legal
a special motive to apply mechanically to another material. Material molding,
regardless of the material itself, there is a kind of astrology. Natural shape
forever dies out, becomes impoverished, becomes one-sided. A separate stage of history
‘rii forms become the norm. Eliminating the line between two concepts in
Art—pure and applied—is associated with the rehabilitation of material.

ora to dispel the romantic idea of the artist as a priest,
performing solemn service before the altar of pure art, and
fill in the ditch that separates art from production, from industry
ity, Artistic culture is believed to be outside of production, outside of practical
life. The time has come to bring out the art of the state of caste isolation
_aimless snobbery. It is necessary to force the onset of such
moment when dualism, cultivated by modern applied arts,
will be eliminated, and training workshops. will no longer bleach with one
hand, a master “specialist”, alien to any artistic traditions,
on the other hand, the artist is the notorious “professor of painting,” an indifferent
ready for production, allowing artistic assignments in narrow traditional
tionwithin the framework of representation, & not directly on the mother-
elements serving industry.

Therefore, workshops should provide experienced laboratories
theory for processing a particular material, the basis should be
The cultivation of conscious creativity is introduced. approach to texture, color
and constructive tasks, .

Individual workshops: paintings and sculptures cannot occupy
Gogo central position, which they occupied until now.

Workshops can be divided according to the type of work being processed.
matorizla, for example, workshops for solid structural materials,
such as woodworking, metal, stone processing, etc. On
for a number of practical workshops, a laboratory should be organized
Ratorio, which gives inexhaustible. theoretical and analytical knowledge
structure design and properties of materials.
No. 17 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ——_ 61

These tasks must be carried out directly on the material
which finds application in production.

The laboratory of artistic form should not operate with alien
production material, and then only mechanically attached to the new
material. This point of view, associated with a false presumption about art,
natural forms, hovering somewhere regardless of expediency and con-
structure associated with the processing of material could only arise
in the absence of a conscious creative attitude towards the material. From the iz-
follows: only by the forced alienation of art from production
stavva, the reduction of its role to the decoration of the master's chambers can be explained; what
‘Russian cultural society has overlooked the rich pictorial traditions
and the scenic possibilities of sign art.

The science of art is still in its infancy. Especially
This is harmful in one respect: when treating any questions of history and theory
artists, theorists and museologists easily fall into aesthetic dogmatism.

Normative aesthetics is taught, i.e. interpretation of one or anothero-
natural canons not as a historical fact, not as a separate
stage in the history of artistic form, as timeless a'.c0-
strict compulsory norms. Studying artistic style outside of history
ical perspective unwittingly leads to the most hopeless eclecticism.
A new scientific approach to art is needed, free from subjective
aesthetic evaluation, free from the cult of heroes from art, the approach is op-
dealing with healthy phenomena as a social fact.

A. Ivanov.

Staging works in theater studios.

The present historical moment obliges us to present a series of con-
specific data in the field of construction of the proletarian theater. But before,
than to outline these practical measures, we are forced to stop our
attention to some purely theoretical considerations that are indivisible
are closely related to the practical formulation of the question.

The development of theatrical methods and technology is always closely related
with the socio-economic situation of the country. An example would be
Greece, where the technique and working conditions of the Greek ‘actor, stage, orchestra,
choir, buskins, masks, chiton and a special way of pronunciation directly followed
from trade and slave relations in Greece. No less bright
the measure is the true theatrical form of the intimate. theater - product
factory production. Intimate theater is a special kind of joint-stock
company that manages the inspiration of actors.

The entrepreneur is a capitalist, actors are pawns, props in the hands of the entrepreneur.
Nera. Obsolete bourgeois ‘intimate theater with the separation of spectator and
the characters are replaced by proletarian theater—the theater of the historical moment
proletarian revolution. Bourgeois theater is consigned to history. Proletar-
the theater coming to replace it must separate the healthy core from the nano-
hay waste and use it in the construction of a new tetr.” Task
the proletariat to create its own class theater—the basis of the theater of the future. These
cursory remarks were necessary to move on to covering the organization.”
tional and pedagogicalgical methods.

After the October Revolution, the cultural movement in the field of theatrical
art took on a mass form in the form of the formation of the eternal
number of drama clubs, productions of performances in factories and factories
and in military units. This is the first stage in the development of theater business. Wto"
The third stage is the organization of studios. Conditions are needed to help
workers in And now with theoretical and practical work
62 - PROLETARIAN CULTURE. L№ 17—19

in the knowledge of theatrical skills. There should be many such studios in
city center and on the outskirts. The next, third stage is the or-
organization of central studios by selecting more gifted, more deeply
perceiving theatrical tasks. These studios need to be taken over
the state's desire to have the opportunity to study theater technology
perfectly. The fourth stage is the organization of the central arena. master
region, where these studios could apply their expertise in the field
searches for new theatrical forms, in resolving the problem of creator and viewer.
The work of theater studios generally boils down to the study of theatrical
mastery, to the formulation of creative desires that reflect the interests of the work-
what class. A theater teacher must reveal the dynamics of internal
desires and actions of the studio artist through improvisation and renewal techniques
plays. Man is not a static quantity, he contains a whole range of internal
them movements, what we call the dynamics of feeling. Movement of desires
the dynamics of feelings and are interesting in the theater. Reveal the creative desire of the student
student and allowing it to develop is the goal of the teacher.
Such work is possible in studios that have abandoned the old framework of work.
bots. For example, you can use any random phenomenon that occurs
present on stage, introduction of new characters; it develops technique.
adaptation, identifying desires, moods and feelings. You can also
apply the method of today, performing flying tasks, i.e. you-
complete any task by decision of the team in each individual service;
tea in different wayswow. Principles of internal self-identification and development of feelings
artistic truth—the basic methods of studying theatrical mastery.
A sense of artistic truth disciplines in the simplest exercises.
marriages. Pedagogical work needs to be connected with the mass audience.
Each performance, being a rehearsal for the next more perfect
rehearsals, should increase compared to the previous one depending on
given state of the team. The creative process is a process of searching for new
new forms. Every public rehearsal must be subject to mass criticism.
owl spectator, for which it is recommended to organize debates about the performances.
It is necessary to break the old traditions of dividing the teztra into the viewer and the actor.
tera. It is necessary to educate a new viewer by attracting him to participate.
staging in the production, at first at least in the form of open criticism. So about
At the same time, studios do not hide in a laboratory, but expose their work to
proper analysis of the working masses.
A new actor must first of all be a citizen, and for this
it is necessary in the studio to organize party work and pass games -
school, participation in community cleanups, indicating the importance of free
labor—this, by the way, is also one of the means for establishing a contract
between spectator and actor. Reliable studio students need to
expectations of the party school to give a number of public assignments, send
them to factories and factories, and there, in communication with the masses, they will develop their
Munistic “content”. Studios should not only be factories
a new actor, but also a new communist man. The new actor should...
to reveal in theatrical form the communist man and the communist ideal.
In searches, people get to know each other and in creative intimate communication
one must also demonstrate communist principles. Studio heads
must take care of creating collective creativity. Distribution ` rho-
lei, role analysis, the relationship of one role to another, rearrangement of scenes and
and. the general plan of the production should become the subject of creativity of the entire team
asset.. NecessityIma creative criticism of studio members.
In terms of scenery and production styles, the old theater is far from
The theory of artistic contrasts was used. Moscow Proletkult
in my work I tried to apply the principle of artistic contrasts in
staging different acts of one play, in accordance with the mood of a given
act and had results. The synthesis of arts, as the ideal of the theater of the future, in
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. 63

currently has not yet been implemented. In some cases it represents
is a mechanical mixture and is not at all organic, chemical
connection, representing something like a patch on a new suit. For or-
the ganical unification of the arts requires their centralization, subordination
general work on this theatrical performance. Currently in the theater
regional productions of literature, music, painting, sculpture and architecture
tours play a supporting role. Only a harmonious combination in creative
The synthesis of words, movement, paint, line, light, color and emotion will give
a true theater of the future.

The repertoire must be created by the theater group itself. Because
in ready-made plays, all sorts of alterations, cuts, new interpretations are possible,
Various inodenizations of various OAAeotic products are possible.
denii.

Theater music should pay attention to stage orgasm
ical sounds and noises needed for this spectacle.

Painting distributes+colors, light and lines in the most vivid and expressive way
appropriate for this spectacle.

Sculpture helps to fill a number of necessary things with content (bu-
tabhoria, ornament, etc.).

Architecture brings to the theater its experience of a harmonious combination of cha-
ties and space distribution,

The teacher in his work in the studios must first apply the method
analysis of the phenomenon, and then synthesis.

The subjects required for teaching in the studio include:
Diction-pronunciation.

. Voice production.

Recitation - the laws of artistic expression.
I Improvisation.

Stage exercises.

Rhythm according to Dalcroze.

Singing and music.

Conversations about theatre.

Aesthetics.

1. Diction-pronunciation.

Through a series of exercises (vrticulation, tongue twister, etc.) it develops
speech apparatus.

The subject is allocated an average of 3-4 hours per week.

„2. Poetry. voices. l

When applying a single natural method, everyone is a person who can
speaks well, will also have a completely benign voice,
salmon which, if you have musical abilities, can be recycled
to sing. And vice versa; Every singer who sings correctly must not
it is inevitable to speak correctly and clearly, for these two abilities are inextricably
interconnected, being the result of natural movements of the vocal
vogo and mimic apparatus.

Inability to correctly use your speech and breathing abilities
Ratom inevitably affects the stage side of the vocal business. Only
the presence of complete freedom of movement, natural and truthful facial expressions,
depending on the sound quality, can deliver our vocal and dramatic
(stage) art. to the proper height, what liberation. singer
and the artist is achievable only through the acquisition of completely natural qualities.
training, which is achieved by the natural method of voice and speech production.

A sonorous, beautiful voice and correct, clear speech are re-
the result of natural, expressive facial expressions, with complete freedom of the head,
neck, torso from harmful and unnecessary stress, why training a singer
or dramatic artist (as well as speakers, lecturers, etc.) should
begin precisely with the education of his mimic apparatus, in order to create in

r

But also
64 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. №`17—19

students develop strong natural habits that are the foundation for
further development and artistic improvement,

The absolutely wonderful thing about the voice is the following: 1) perfect
racial qualities of the temora, 2) in a large range of scales, which the voice
can pass 3) in fullness and sonority.

3. Declamation—the laws of artistic speech.

Recitation should be taught in independent classes:
1) speech techniques, 2)individual recitation and 3) collective recitation.

The class of speech techniques (diction) has as its task: 1) inform the student
maintaining clarity of tone, purity and correctness of pronunciation; 2) develop in them
ability of unforced mastery of tone according to its three corrections: ‘high-
honeycomb, strength and duration, both individually and in combination; 3) because
provide students with all the information necessary for independent
logical analysis of content; 4) to develop in students the ability
sensations of voting, rhythm, structure, timbre and tempo.

The subject is allocated an average of 2 hours per week.

The practical class of individual recitation has as its goal the restoration of
to nourish in students the ability to independently construct declamatory
forms corresponding to the epical content of the revealed material.
When developing declamatory material, a subjective motive is put forward.
ment of the reader’s attitude towards the content of the work. Content Analysis
is produced by methods of closing the reader into a chain of experiences without leaving
ny parts of the work. Particular attention is paid to the ‘clutch’ moments
parts (modulating), where students are tasked with finding a match
between emotional and tonal modulation.

Literary material in the individual recitation class orc
serve works containing elements of joy, pr@rea to struggle
and work, light humor and subtle sarcasm. According to its content. class
this is a class of artistic propaganda propaganda. It is directly
An important practical task is the preparation of IDF: NOI
a new rapper for performances in Proletcult studios.

Iredmet is allocated an average of 4 hours per week.

Collective recitation is of great importance not only as
an artistic form of creativity in the strongest degree infecting the masses
its dynamics, but also as a method of collective ‘creativity, most clearly
revealing all the advantages of this latter over the creativity of in-
individual. g

In this work, like nowhere else, the student feelsacceptable
part of the whole, infusing, and at the same time subordinate, reflecting
whole and at the same time reflected in this whole, linked and inseparably with
by the entire creative team, feeling organically whole,
a living, dynamic, multi-headed being, capable of feeling and transmitting
the feelings and thoughts of the masses, their struggle, the movement of the elements - in a word, those dynamic
physical phenomena that cannot be realized by forces of gravity
Dividuum.

Literary material can be works of the same content.
same as in the individual reading class, with the difference that for the collective
For the purpose of recitation, works are selected that contain a message; and and feel-
`mass, movement of elements. The central moment is dynamic,
The content analysis is the same as in the individual recitation class,
i.e. by the method of closing into an emotional chain. Especially technical ones
musical aspects are highlighted: rhythm, structure, timbre, melody and tempo.
The principles here receive a particularly clear opportunity to reveal that it is very
valuable in terms of clarity for students. It should also be noted that
specific disciplinary significance of these studies, ant collective
attention and imagination of the studio as a whole.

The subject is allocated an average of 4-6’ hours per week.
No. 17—19 - PROLETARIAN CULTURE: `65—^

4. Improvisation—freedom. performing stage tasks: ^

In improvisation, the student, not bound by any preconditions,
viii, performs this topic completely arbitrarily.

Improvisation gives the student a lot of scope for expressing his imagination.
and helps him find bright colors and unexpected combinations in his soul.

Volume, quality and defects are especially clearly hidden in improvisation.
artistic talents of the studio student.

5. Stage exercises.

The purpose of teaching stage exercises is to develop the student’s attention
mania, will, fantasy and internal stage technique (acrobatics of emotions). >

In oenovu' presentation. Can. put the Stanislavsky system; methods-
which is the most of all existing theatricals systems are responsible for:
Denmark sincerely identifying the emerging creative. student's wishes.
‚The continuous flow and variability of feeling is colored. way. the whole
a series of exercises, in the desired and specified color. Through stage exercises
The studio student learns how to perform. stage task given by the author, or:
director, or the entire creative team, approaches their own
the desires of the studio members, and he acts in the tone of what was found, new stage-wise.
heightened feeling. Study the nature of your ‘feelings, learn to analyze
analyze the present moment of your experiences and find in them a fulcrum for
perform a stage task, feel the normal flow of conscious
life in stage conditions, endlessly, always, again and again yokel-=long-
wives of studio students at stage drama lessons

6. Dalcr ›za-rhythm system.

The rhythmic system according to Dalcroze contains a complex network of many-_
numerical exercises pursuing a wide variety of goals. Exercise
These can be divided into separate groups, with defense in general.
character. The following groups can be identified:

1. Musical and rhythmic.

2. Plastic-gymnastic.

3. Strong-willed.

4. Expressive (preparing for pantomime).

5. Rhythmic games, sketches, dances, pantomimes, and mass performances
exercises.

This wealth makes the system `extremely flexible in sense. her pri-.
abilities and changes according to age, gender, character, si-,
sociality, qualities and shortcomings of students. Classes are held with children
differently than with adults, boys may be given different tasks than
girls. In music schools, the center of gravity is on musical-rhythmic
ski exercises, theatrical exercises, expressive exercises, with some volitional exercises—
concentrating attention, with others - on plastic-gymnastics, etc.
The combination of all these tasks leads to a result that can
be considered the ultimate goal of the 66th system, namely, to develop a harmonious
heavenly beauty, beautiful in body and strong in spirit. Of course, these results
are not achieved immediately, but aftercontinuous and regular work.

The Dalcroze system has already been developed in such detail by its creator himself,
what exists in it. of course, a whole range of well-established techniques
and excellent methods proven by experience, but at the same time, teaching
the body is given unlimited scope for creative creativity and search for methods
Dov. For example, musical counting and the study of relationships between different
personal sound durations—represent fixed
techniques based on the elementary theory of musical rhythm, but personal,
the teacher's talent can transform simple alternations of quarters,
half and eighth notes into meaningful melodies, imbued with a certain
mood and thus, unnoticed by the students themselves, transfer them
from the area of purely motor sensations and arithmetic calculations into
area of feeling and experience.

Proletarian culture. No. 17- 19, 5
in o }

`

66 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ` No. 17—19

In the theater studios of Proletkult, taking into account almost completely
lack of preparedness of studio students in terms of musical education, recommend-
it is necessary to alternate methods leading from consciousness to feeling (compare the method of Sta-
Nislavsky) with methods leading from instinct to consciousness. So, after
completely rational consciousness of any rhythmic combinations is given
to the same rhythm is a dramatic task in which only what has been learned
the rhythm must be performed completely involuntarily. Meter frames and
rhythm should not only not be constrained, but, on the contrary, should challenge
create a special sincerity of the gesture, since, merging with the rhythm, the performer
merges together with the feeling that inspires at this moment
musician. And, conversely, you can go straight ‘from instinct and then into
in a calm state, allow the studio students to analyze their movements with
from the point of view of musical rhythm. ,

So, in the musical direction, 3 tasks face teachers:
lem rhythmics: 1) `Rhythmic consciousness; 9) Rhythmic inotinct:
3) Feeling, i.e. conveying the style and mood of music in movements. `

Then in the field of will education: 1) Development of internal and external
disciplines; 2) ability to concentrate; 8) speed and
correct response to external orders; 4) destruction of lethargy,
apathy, as well as nervous fussiness, expressed in a mass of unnecessary
movements (compare Stanislavsky's system).

In plastic-gymnastic terms, the task of the rhythm teacher should be
be the development of dexterity, spontaneous movements, as well as the development of `
natural expressive place that meets the set musical
dramatic tasks. `m

It is recommended at each lesson) to put on some mass `rit-
mystical games - dancing. These games invariably give rise to healthy
your cheerful mood.

Various proletkult studios (music, fine arts)
ties, literary, etc.) must certainly unite in experiments of syn-
theoretical creativity, it is easier and simpler and more natural to do this in the
trawl action.

Particular attention should be paid to the first impression of reading
play or script, to the delight of premonitions and creative potential
vanishing images in the individual ‘consciousness of each of the students, who
unites everyone at this moment in a single creative impulse.

This sunken spark should be vigorously fanned until it
the flame of joint collective action burns in the theater. Need to learn
looking at each individual role as part of the overall creative work.
Therefore, there are no bad or unprofitable roles for the creative team, because
each actor reveals in a given spectacle not-himself, ‘but carries out
a creative task common to all. Therefore, the well-being of each individual...
a significant participant in the general collective creative process, if he had
a role of a negative nature or a very small role, or a central one
role—should be equally joyful. And this is an indispensable
viem to achieve success in the search for proletarian theater. In the actual scene...
nical action, this collective creative process revealsI'm alive
communication between actors.

This can and should be learned. The theater has three main
colors: 1) the word (pronunciation, meaning, literature, music, speech, etc.).,/—
2) movement (dance, gesture, rhythm, color dynamics) and 3) emotion. Artistic
The main direction of the proletarian theater is the synthesis of the colors of the theater. Because
in theater pedagogy, it is first necessary to widely apply the method of analysis
licking and studying in parts the colors and means of theater art, and then
creatively synthesize. |

1) The study of a word, like theatrical paint, falls into a series: the following
main subjects: diction (pronunciation of letters, words and phrases, speech development

“
a, PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 67

device). Voice production (breathing, position of sound organs, exercises)
loss of the vocal apparatus). Declamation (laws of artistic speech, ana-
analysis of literary works from the point of view of artistic reading.
Methods of Delsarte and Volkonsky. Singing and music (expansion of tonal
range, hearing development, sound aesthetics). Improvisation—words in stage
logical action (experience of word creativity, the birth of words from the proposed scenes
nic circumstances.

2) Study of movement—©sports (body development lays the foundation
in the human body the ability to work on movement). Plastic
{muscle elasticity). Rhythmics (development of the ability to rhythmically control
make a movement. Dalcroze system). Improvisation of movement (exercise)
ability to creatively use movement to identify a given task—without
words).

3) Experiences stage exercises (cultivation of will, attention
and fantasies. Stanislavsky system). Music (listening to music, music
The main topic is a stage task, awareness of unclear sensations. Improvisation
(reincarnation, images, joint action, etc.). a

`Currently, the above methods and directions can be proposed
the development of work based on the experience of two years of work, which has already given its specific
results.

8. Conversations about the theater.

The point of these conversations is to develop a critical attitude among the studio student towards
I existcommon theatrical directions, awareness of the work of this theater
the main collective in the chain of theater history and modern theater,

The most important ones. theatrical trends of the past in connection with the economic
on some basis:

1. Theater of the Barbarians: festivals, religious ceremonies. "Game" technique
improvisation, masks, costumes, ceremony items (props and props).

2. Greek and Roman theater. Slave-owning democracy. Impro-
sightings (procession from the fields), dancing and dancing at festivals. Celebrations,
associated with agriculture, war, and trade. The emergence of theatrical
literature. Euripides, Sophocles, Aeschylus and Aristophanes. Life Slaves are actors. Scene
technical technology; buskins, masks, mouthpieces, costumes, manner of speaking, place
theatrical performances.

3. Mesteria. The Church becomes the power. Awareness of the theatrical
art as platforms for propaganda. Religious content of the plays. Action in
churches, action on the porch, action on the square. Theater technique:
actors—clergymen, professional actors, manner, acting, makeup,
costume, scenery.

4. Life Public criticism. Manner of play. Permanent stamped
new images. New content—new form. Theater revolution.

5. Court theater in the era of absolutism. False-classical theater. Litera-
tour. Carverism of authors and actors. Ramp. Costume. Makeup. Decorations.
Manner of play.

6. Shakespeare Theater Stage technique and play technique.

7. Theater of the revolutionary bourgeoisie. Celebrations of the Great French
revolution. Vaudeville. Heroic plays. Manner of play. Bolshoi Theater
ny hall Makeup. Costume. Decorations.

8. French school: Coquelin senior. Manner of play. Scientific analysis
roles. Psychology. School of Providers. Possart. Sarah Bernard.

9. Wagner Theater. Teztr Fuchs. (Munich Kunsttheater).
The search for new theatrical colors, The relief stage, The problem of the spectator and
artist. Dreams of synthetic theater. Craig's theater - searching for a new form.
Melancholy and hopelessness, Art for art's sake. Puppet as an ideal
artist. The free development of creativity is impossible withlove fabrication
tetral goods. Sophistication of stage technique. Cars. Advertising.
Dependence on profit. “Geatrocracy” by N. Evreinov.

5*
68 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 17-19

`10. Intimate theater as a modern form of capitalist thestrum.
The theater is a factory. Miniatures. Supply and demand. Entrepreneur. Director.
Writer. Artist. Musician. Actors. The social status of the actor.

11. Dalcroze and its system. Movement like teztral paint. Panto
Mima. Ballet. : in

12. School of experiences. Salvini, Belloti, Boni, Shepkin, Shumsky.
Duse, Stanislavsky. Why was this school possible in the past? Her life
innocence, its possibilities. |

13. Futurism, symbolism, impressionism, realism are not schools, & thesis
trawling directions. >

14. Objectives and role of the theater. Looking at the artist as a useless member
society as a parasite. The social role of theater is the organization of consciousness.
The elasticity of theater as an art of the current social moment.

-15. The old theater, the bourgeois theater, the proletarian theater and the camp theater
munistic. Design of a new consciousness in the theater. Elements of the future
theater in the present.

16. Creative: genius, talent. Affective apparatus that catches
vibrios of the future in the society of the present time. Conscious and subconscious.

17. Elements of the creative state. Intense desire. Iuse-
the use of this material and equipment. Creation of new material and new
technical techniques (overcoming). Form.

18. The law of specific energy. Organs of perception of physical phenomena
ny. The concept of randomness. Perception of influences. Authority, equal, below
standing. E

19. Attention, imagination, will and work.

20. Perceiver. Authority. The influence of advertising. Absence
criticism. A dream about a spectacle. Passion for the spectacle. Impulses to action.
I see. The constraining influence of the traditions of the auditorium. ``t

21. Education of the viewer. Liberation. Method. Free exchange method
opinions. Methods of engaging in action. Mass theater as creative
synthesis of spectator and actor.

22. Prospects. The coming theater. AboutLetarski# theater. Proletarsky
the theater is like a factory of the new 'communist man'. There is a creative process
labor process. Organization of “things, people and ideas”.
It is impossible to create a new theater technique without taking into account the old one.
A new technique is born only by overcoming the old one in creative
process. The viewer can be educated by familiarizing himself with the theatrical
technology. You need to reveal your action to the viewer in harmony with the action
actor, and this is ‘convenient in improvisation. Mass theater is a dream, a twinkle, a
but someone is drawn to creative work. Its implementation, like the theater’s constant
nomu, a number of natural conditions interfere.

The idea of reviving the Shakespeare Theater is dangerous, since the goal and objectives
proletarian theater in search of new ways (using old ones, but not
reviving them) constant anxiety and desire to formalize creativity.

new moment.
Shaft. Smyshlyava.

(what and how to start working in the field of music
nogo' art.

The place of music in proletarian culture, as a factor that recreates
the inner nature of man and the organizer of the feeling and will of the masses, determining
was also divided by the resolution of the First All-Russian Assembly. Proletkult conferences. Us
It only remains to add that future music, together with other arts,
ties must be not only an exponent of new life, but also an active
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 69

element of its construction. At this moment we need to outline
a specific program of activities of proletkults in the field of music, defining
dividing, at least in general terms, its methods.

° Theoretically, all work can be divided into three branches: cultural-
educational, scientific-research and cultural-creative. In practice
tike ‘all these industries are so closely intertwined that often
It is impossible to make any distinction.

Purely educational work in its essence is included in the program
works of proletcults and is inevitable, as self-sufficient, inextricably linked
dedicated to scientifically and artistically creative work. By the will of creative laws
stva proletarianshe will have to use the old legacy to create
new values, why mastering this heritage is for him
urgent task.

The musical heritage of the past lies in the examples of artistic
collective (folk) and individual creativity, in reproduction technology
their application in the science of music.

In assimilating this material, proletkults should help fly-
riatu treat him critically and evaluate the 6th with his proletarian
point of view.

To achieve this, proletcults organize concerts and lectures
and conversations, inviting the necessary specialists for this, & also use
sulking and with their already sufficiently prepared proletarian
forces.

Concerts must be unconditionally artistic in nature and pro-
flow in a serious and even solemn atmosphere, subject to strict
the utmost silence and discipline. :

The concert should not be a simple “familiarization” with the works
musical art, but an action in which artists and listeners merge
there is an interior space for the highest and noblest human experiences.
vaniya.

We must not forget that highly artistic performance can create
create an indelible impression that can live in a person all his life,
as a constant impetus and stimulator for creativity.

Therefore, it is better to give one really brightly artistic concert,
than fifty of these that leave pale impressions on the listener.

Concert programs must be strictly thought out and contain
if only the greatest examples of musical creativity of universal humanity
significance, or those that are typical for some
direction, era or turning point in the development of culture in general,

Concerts should be accompanied by lectures, introductions, &
as well as conversations with the participation of the entire audience.

It would be highly desirable if the concert program was drawn up
according to the series of lectures listened to, and the listeners are already in their studios
classes would prepare for its perception.

In lectures it is necessary to noteconnection of this musical style with
the era corresponding to it, its socio-economic and ethical
The comparison of music with other arts is also important.

about the introductory speech, one should not pay much attention to the anatomical
knowledge of the structure of the work, or its programming side, thus distracting
way the listeners' attention is paid to the appearance of the work, and sometimes even
imposing your own understanding on the listeners. The words of music tell
cannot be said and the purpose of the opening statement should be only
to prepare and focus listeners' attention by providing them with
perceive each piece performed in your own way. h

After concerts (not necessarily on the same day) it is very useful to arrange
friendly conversations, at which a critical attitude can be revealed

listened to.
x

70 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—16

In addition to getting acquainted with examples of European culture of music and study,
their teachings, must pay the most serious attention to the people. musical
creativity of all nations, since there is an infinite variety of music
cal experience, which is not entirely included in European music.

The most thorough study of Russian folk music is necessary.
a lot of creativity.

Negative properties (from the point of view of proletarian culture) of ‘Russian
folk song, which includes the pessimism in it,
hopelessness, resignation to fate and other reflections of feudal life,
or the lack of modernity of the text, are redeemed by its positive qualities.

We consider reflection in a Russian song to be positive properties
collective labor elements of the primitive commune, collective production
the circulation of the song, with artistic elements of creativity flowing into it,
many peoples inhabiting Russia, and, most importantly, its purely musical
dignity and originality, serving as a powerful lever in the fight against many
ossified techniques and turns of European cultural music.

To master the very valuable features of rhythm, form, melody
and Russian harmonysongs, it is necessary that these songs be learned and performed
became members of the Proletkult studio.

In general, the best method for getting acquainted with folk art is
should be the performance of music by the most folk singers and musicians
kants with their national instruments.

It is possible to familiarize yourself with a gramophone or phonograph, as well as
and performance of songs with piano in the artistic arrangement of the best masters
musical composition, keeping in mind, however, that the piano. build in
significantly distorts the true intonation and timbre of folk music.

We also include purely work songs as folk art,
the collection of which, the artistic processing of them and at AVANNYA is
the primary and most necessary task of the proletcults.

1 Many of the former revolutionary songs should also be permanent
material of the proletkult repertoire, despite their sometimes low
artistic value, as songs inextricably linked with the revolutionary
wrestling.1

As for new revolutionary songs, they should get
distributing only those that are artistically valuable, in
Otherwise, proletcults will be in danger of being clogged with surrogates
music, of which there are so many in past culture, and the fight against the spread
the implementation of which is one of the important tasks of cultural and educational
work in general.

`^ The tasks of scientific research work are so broad that at present
At this point, it is still impossible to fully elucidate all the issues that make up
sharing them.\ s

There is no science of music in the strict sense of the word; many
theoretical subjects related to music are scattered private
character and sometimes look more like recipes than harmonious systems,
as it should be for them. The picture is even more bleak. towards
science and technology, which made such colossal achievements in the twentieth century.

In fact, modern humanity has such wonderful
instruments such as telescopes, microscopes, spectroscopes, radiotelegraphs,
telephones and an infinite numberother finest instruments and machines, and,
Along with this, the most beautiful of arts—music—uses the crudest,
Compared to the above listed devices and tools, what are
for example: piano, violin, trumpet and all other musical instruments.

It’s funny and insulting to state that he is so powerful and subtle.
factor like electricity is still used in music almost exclusively
specifically as brute force, for rotating, for example, shafts, rough mechanical
nic musical instruments, etc.

No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 71

One is simply amazed at the monstrous discrepancy between the means
musical art with all the grandiose achievements of science and technology.
If we touch on these issues in any detail, then the most insignificant
the significant part of them should form the subject of a huge article or even
whole book, and therefore we will try only in the briefest form to outline those
tasks, the solution of which, in our deep conviction, will entail
creating a truly new, colossal and fantastically unheard of
musical culture

The objectives of scientific research work should include: 1) scientific
study of musical phenomena in terms of physical, physiological
and mental; 2) critical examination and re-evaluation of both sound
material, as well as devices and instruments used in music; 3)
finding new ways and technical possibilities of musical creativity
and reproducing it; 4) finding new methods of proletkult
studio work.

In connection with these general tasks of work, proletkults must
begin to develop the following critical issues first:

}And the scientific study of folk musical creativity of all nations in
in order to accurately establish the scales that were used and are being used
various peoples; studying rhythms, forms; sound combinations and timbres
folk music.

This work. should inform and systematize- -miscellaneous-—
figurative musical experience in order to create a ‘substantial basis for furtherfurther forward movement of musical creativity. _

2) Due to the results of previous work, as well as acoustic
laws of nature, must. the question of transformation be raised. the same
artificial and outdated equal-tempered tonal system.

This question alone is, in essence, a question of new music.
cal culture. This also includes the question of a new accurate recording of music.
- 8) Study of timbres and noises for wider use
them for artistic creativity.

4) Improvements in musical reproduction (in particular phono-
graph, gramophone and other instruments), as well as the transmission of musical performance
distance anxiety.

5) Improvement of old and invention of new musical foreign instruments
cops.

6) Improving the acoustic qualities of classrooms and premises
for large outdoor music gatherings.

7) Projects for changing the sound image of modern urban life.

8) Hygiene when practicing music.

9) Scientific formulation of teaching vocal art.

10) understanding music from a socialist point of view.

11) and the relationship between music and work._

12) hedgehogs of music with other arts and many other insoluble
asked and even unanswered questions.

To solve the above-mentioned problems, proletkults are organized at
Music Dept. scientific and technical sub-departments, inviting the necessary civil-
stov. Scientific and technical sub-departments organize musical and acoustic
laboratories, workshops, etc., & also make corresponding orders
other scientists or technical organizations of the republic.

Studio students are also involved in this work, if they are sufficiently
preparedness or identification on their part, for example, but gives
abilities. \

There is an acute shortage of specialist workers in these
issues, as well as the difficulties of organizing laboratories and workshops in
scientific and technical sub-departments can only be organized under the C: K. or
at metropolitan proletcults. :
72 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

Work cultour-creative has as its task to give the opportunity
representatives of the proletariat to reveal their creativity in all sectors
‘musical art with the aim of creating new values.

How can proletarian creativity be expressed? -

Let us outline the forms we expect of this creativity. _

Firstly, proletarian musical creativity will be expressed in artistic
direct performance of musical works; it's not hard to foresee here
artistic performing groups, such as choirs, orchestras, ensembles
bli and all sorts of combinations of them; Naturally, from these groups
outstanding performers and individual performers—artists, both singers and
instrumentalists.

Secondly, it will be expressed in composing music; possible here

turners, when, for example, an essay conceived by one is supplemented or
processed by other comrades who generally agree with the first
direction and taste

<] You can also experiment with choral song composition (composition
subheads in the main topic), and this will be a purely collective form.

It is also possible for the composer to collaborate with other artists.
types of arts for the purpose of synthetic achievements.

T-tert! them, proletarian creativity can be revealed in applied
fields of music, for example, in the creation of the science of music, in technical
improvements in inventions, in the creation of new methods of pedagogy.

To achieve these goals, proletcults organize studios where
future proletarian performing artists, drama com-
positors, scientists, designers and craftsmen.
, V. studvi attracts mainly representatives of industrial
of the proletariat, and in some cases also representatives of other classes,
one way or another close to the tasks of proletkult, or capable of understanding them.

It is very important to attract proletarian children to the studio, since the performers
Telian instrumental technique and especially compositional technique require
long, hard work of the artist from childhood, when
The hands have not yet become rough, or when a person still has fresh ones.abilities
master development and... recording your musical
thoughts. t

There are several types of studios available.-

<. The initial studio works in terms of general musical development,
scooping up the proletarian mass without a particularly strict selection in relation to
musical abilities.

The approximate training program is as follows:

A). The prerequisites are mandatory for all studio students.

1} Passing musical literacy mainly in artistic
nal about’patterns of folk and individual creativity.

2) Choral singing,

3) Rhythm according to the LJ system. Dalcroze or similar.

4) Hearing and understanding. samples of folk and individual mu-
musical oratory (required in artistic performance), & also
lectures and Cecedes. music.

5) Special items;

1) Radiation of playing folk instruments, mainly home-
rah four-string fifth scale (domra G Lyubimova); perhaps at-
run around the instruments, such as: harps, pipes, psalters, lyres, horns
it; p.

2) Playing in ensembles and orchestras of folk instruments.

3) It is possible to organize primary classes in piano, violin,
cello, as well as other string and wind instruments
or a symphony orchestra.
No. 17—99 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. in

4) Initial experiences in composing music are possible (mainly with
children). . r

The central studio (city or provincial) accepts
predominantly studio students from primary studios with above average abilities.

The program of classes in the central studios is more expanded and in-depth.
compared to the district ones. Special departments are organized here;
The following items are added:

1) music composition class,

2) vocal and instrumental ensemble class,

3) subjects of general development: cultural history, art history;
aesthetics, etc. with

4) a course in social sciences is introduced.

Instructor workshops can be organized at the central studios__

departments for choral affairs, rhythmics and music teaching
‘fecal toolscops.

`At present, it should be considered timely and necessary to organize
nization of the All-Russian Music Studio under Ts. K. V. Proletult,
where proletarians with exceptionally distinguished abilities could
complete his artistic and social development.

From all of the above, the methods of work that
ry can be formulated only in general terms, according to the conditions of the size of the present
further article.

In addition, it should be expected that in the field of proletkult methodology,
conducting laboratory and scientific work, they will find a lot of new things in the future,
without, of course, avoiding some temporary errors along the way.

So, we base the initial and subsequent development on the
circulation of musical literacy on living artistic examples, choral
singing and rhythmics, as collective methods, and therefore valuable from society
from a different point of view, on the other hand, as the best ways to develop
hearing, memory of rhythmic sense and sense of form.

When teaching musical instruments, we prefer the method
individual lessons with studio students, with the requirement of playing together
in ensembles and orchestras.

We consider it extremely necessary to review the entire material of technology
ical exercises in the sense of its purely artistic value, so that
avoid previous teaching mistakes when this material, giving benefit
technically, at the same time brought enormous spiritual harm, affecting
student's aesthetic taste.

When conducting studio work, Proletkult members should not limit themselves to
only by her and, to the extent possible, should participate in proletarian competitions
ceremonies, folk celebrations and festivities in order to promote their
achievements, as well as the perception of elements of a new life. Of course it goes without saying
It is clear that these speeches should not be to the detriment of ongoing work.

A particularly important issue is teaching essay techniques
music; previous methods should be considered unsatisfactory, developing
x6 new ones are in their infancy. We can still reverse
attention to the following important points in our opinionthis case:

1) It is necessary that future proletarian composers, in addition to the fundamental ones,
thorough study of great examples of individual creativity, no less
would thoroughly study examples of folk art, where there are many
techniques that have not yet been included in European cultural music. `.

2) It is advisable to pay special attention to the development of melodic
creativity.

3) It is advisable to cultivate the taste of a student in the direction of great pros-
tota, characteristic of the classics, & also examples of folk art;
leaving aside the excessive enthusiasm for the appearance of the composition, which is so
common to most recent composers.

74 PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. No. 179.

In conclusion, we consider it necessary to organize the Musical
department under the Central Committee of the All-Russian Proletkult, which would establish
contact in the work of Music. Dept. Proletkults, provided. would be a mutual exchange
achievements of various proletkults, would organize the All-Russian Student
diya, would supervise her work, and in some cases would help with his own
systematic instructions to provincial proletkults.

In the absence of a central uniting all musical work
organ, the elementary principles of collectivism are violated in the work of the flight
cults, and we express the hope that the organization of such a body will follow
in the near future.

_ V. Nrasin.

a
8

All-Russian Congress of Proletkult.

After two years of work, the Proletkult Central Committee convened
The All-Russian Congress, which forced even its opponents to admit that
the idea of proletarian culture took deep roots among the working masses,
filled with life and inspiration. the proletariat, causing creativity in it
amateur performances in the cultural field. And it was impossible not to
know when Proletkults grouped around themselves more than half a million
workers, of whom about 30 thousand are already actively working in various
studios.

The 1st All-Russian Conference consisted of only two metropolitan Pro-
Letkult, Petrograd and Moscow, and now there are more than 300 of them. In addition,
createdThe International Bureau of Proletkult was formed, which included representatives
England, France, Germany, Austria, Italy, Belgium, Norway, Sweden
ria, Russia and America. The bureau set its task to promote
ideas of proletarian culture in Western Europe in order to create an organization there
tions of Proletkult, and thereby prepare for the convening of the International Congress
Proletvulta.

The congress was strictly business in nature. We didn’t stand in front of the delegates
questions whether proletarian culture is needed, what proletarian culture is
etc. They put everything on a business basis, how to carry out this great
slogan to put into practice, how to organize work more productively, how to brighten and expand
fly your banner.

Theoretical issues were also discussed at the Congress, but these were not the same
general questions that were debated at the 1st All-Russian Conference. Then
major issues were discussed as the foundation was laid. All-Russian-
union around the idea of proletarian culture, at the Congress there were
questions that arose during the work were raised: about professionalism
workers in art (speaker A. Lunacharsky), the path of proletarian creativity
quality (speaker A. Bogdanov), about the volume and character. works of Proletkult
(speaker P. Lebedev-Polyansky).

The question of professionalism has a deep vital meaning; from him
permission depended on the entire execution of the work. There was no question for the delegates
new; the opposing parties expressed their opinions much earlier and
quite definitely. Some argued that professionalism, taking away the worker
from the factory and the plant, separates him from the working environment, directs him to peiho-
logic, therefore, creativity in the bourgeois direction. They advised
to carry out creative work without breaking ties with production, in free
time, during rest hours, so to speak, by the way. Opponents are reasonably right
shivali: do you think that workers, occupying responsible positions, in
Soviet institutions, which is inevitably associated with leaving the enterprise,
break with the working class, move away from it ideologically and psychologically?
NahDo you think it is possible to make music, for example, to work
violin, after eight hours of work at the lathe. :
No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 75

After a heated and lengthy exchange of opinions, the Congress was almost unanimously
clearly admitted that ‘at the moment, during the period of the workers’ dictatorship, when
all life is imbued with proletarian ideology, which is becoming wider and deeper
is strengthened among the working masses, leaving the factory does not lead to separation
from labor ideology and psychology. This objection had a basis in Bur-
zhuaz society, and not in the worker-peasant society. The congress recognized that Prolet-
the cult must take the path of professionalism, specialization and appropriate
way. put practical work at the center to enable
be formalized for talented proletarians allocated by the provinces.

In connection with this, the purely organizational issue of studio members was resolved
and scholarships. Students are sent by local organizations with a specific
obligations, and the center provides them with a scholarship, hostel and
everything necessary for work. If bourgeois specialists have been for many years
conducted in one or another educational institution, then the proletariat, so that
single out its proletarian specialists, must engage in its own specialization
seriously, deeply, to the point of completely overcoming it in order to have superiority
confrontation with one’s ideological, and often political, enemy
specialist Over the two years of work, a number of talented workers have emerged. In Prolet-
Cults have their own poets, artists, singers and performers. They have not yet formalized
they were afraid and acted timidly; and only, having taken the path of specialization, Prolet-
the cult will be able to produce people no less talented and famous than M. Gorky
and F. Chaliapin, and at that deeply communist-minded.

A long and passionate discussion was sparked by a report on the scope and nature of
works of Proletkult.

How the Communist Party builds its policies based on
the vanguard of the working class, on its politically conscious part, and
‘Proletkult in its creative work is based on industryal, pro-
production proletariat, as a more cultural and more advanced layer. |
But in. current life conditions, when some enterprises are not functioning,
or functions partially, when a significant cadre of workers responds
official posts, at the front, or went to the village, it was not always possible
maintain the social basis of the organization, and expand it locally,
involving the peasantry and petty bourgeoisie in the sphere of its activities, the Congress decided
spoke out strongly against this trend, pointing out that creative work |
conducted exclusively among the proletariat, and only in the process of demonstrations
and agitation for its achievements, Proletkult attracts, for the sake of ideological
impact, and other public groups.

Through the factory Proletkults a close connection is maintained with
purely by the working masses, through performances, rallies, concerts, evenings
A connection is established with the broad working masses, but in such a way that this part.
the tasks did not push into the background of laboratories—creative work.

Taking into account his studio and laboratory work, S’ezd stated that
that the form of organization was created quite expediently. Without looking up from
the broad working masses, absorbing all the experience of communist
construction, it gives the proletariat at the same time the opportunity to recycle.
this experience in artistic forms outside of interference in creative work
process of other social groups.

The question was more acute in its second part, about the attitude of creative
work towards narrow educational work.

As you know, our proletariat culturally stands on
rather low stage of development, and therefore Proletkults on the ground in
in their daily creative work have always encountered cultural
backwardness, which bound the scope of creativity. And it is natural that time
We have diverted places into narrow educational work. This ‘work is easier, and
it requires less qualified workers, and its results
are revealed sooner. The congress emphasized at this point that Proletkults,
as before, we must strictly stand on the basis of TVorcish work, polish

76 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

being engaged in educational work insofar as. it is inseparable and
inevitable in creative work. U

The congress quickly navigated these issues and realized that the slightest
deviation from this ideological position will lead to distortion of the work
and will put Proletkult on the same plane as the People's Commissariat for Education. Outgoing
in practice, deviations in most cases were explained by the fact that many
organizations of a purely educational nature call themselves Proletkults,
without having any idea about it, but simply being inspired by a bright idea
proletarian culture. Partly because I can’t cope with my work.
the corresponding bodies of the People's Commissariat for Education were formed, and the masses inevitably went to
Proletkult organizations. Some organizations of TsK Proletkultv
closed, forced others to remove Proletkult signs, and united many
around himself, put him on the absolutely correct ideological path.

In the first year of work, when all attention was paid to campaigning,
to establish an organization, Proletkults could not develop with the proper
the scope of its artistic and propaganda work among the population, although
his dramatic troupes, poets and choirs toured Siberia; Caucasus, separate
ny provinces and almost all fronts. Now that Proletkult has taken shape,
when the proletarian masses enthusiastically go to his creative studios and
selflessly work there, sometimes in the most terrible conditions,
moment to enter into the closest communication with the masses in order to check your
achievements in order to educate these masses and at the same time receive content
nie from them. And in this work you need to come into close contact with everyone
institutions conducting artistic-communist propaganda,
in order to paralyze that scatteredness, lack of coherence, and most importantly lack of ideas
features that are too often evident.

If at first artistic and propaganda work inevitably
was carried out not systematically, but from case to case, to the best of our ability, now
The congress made its next programme work, but emphasizing that ultimately
In the end, the work should go not so much in width as in depth.
Ideology comes first, it is the key to the success of the movement for the proletarian
culture.

With full consciousness, the Congress passed by those attacks of opponents, according to
which turned out that Proletkult, as a specialist, in a life clogged
laboratory creates elements of proletarian culture and does not understand that
proletarian culture grows in the struggle against bourgeois culture, in
conditions of revolutionary, political and economic struggle and organization
tions of the new society. But for that, the Congress strictly turned its attention to everything
those comments that had serious grounds. VHF delegates
called for the absence of the Proletarian University, the Proletarian Palace
Creativity, courses for Proletkult workers, etc.

The report “The Way of the Proletarian
creativity." The speaker developed the idea that “creativity is the highest, most
complex type of work. Therefore, his methods come from labor methods,” i.e.
this type of work, which is typical for workers in the newest large in-
industry“... “Methods of proletarian labor are developing in the direction of monitoring
authenticity and conscious collectivism. They fold in the same direction
naturally and the methods of proletarian creativity,”

“In the sphere of artistic creativity, the old culture is characterized
uncertainty and unconsciousness of methods ("inspiration", etc.), their
isolation from the methods of labor practice, from the methods of creativity in other
hy areas. Although the proletariat is still making here: only the first steps, but
The general tendencies characteristic of it are already clearly outlined. Monism takes its toll
in an effort to merge art with work life, to make art a tool
its active-aesthetic transformation along the entire line. Collectivism,
at first spontaneous, and then more and more conscious, it appears clearly in the content
zhaniya artistic works, and even in the form of artistic
1 - PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 72

perception of life, illuminating the image not onlyhuman life, but
and life of nature; nature as a field of collective labor, its connections and gar-
mony, as the embryo and prototype of the organization of the collective.”

“The technical methods of the old art developed separately from
methods in other areas of life; the technique of proletarian art must be consciously
carefully search and use the material and all those methods.”

„Awareness of collectivism, deepening people's mutual understanding and connection
feelings between them will make possible an incomparably broader
until now, the development also of direct collectivism in creativity,
that is; direct cooperation of many in it, even on a massive scale.”

The report of Comrade A.A. aroused no less interest and great discussion. M. Smith
“On the nearest stages of proletarianization science”, in which she developed the idea
new systematization of the “creative and cognitive accumulated by mankind”
physical experience”, as a tool for “organizing social labor”. Developing.
idea of the Proletarian University, she emphasized that proletarian universities
universities and studios will be the environment in which they can “emerge and
the sprouts of proletarian science will develop” and the paths of gradual or-
organization of the method itself and forms of thinking.

Sectional work, where all the energy of the Congress was concentrated, took place
walked on a strictly principled position of both previous decisions and
new ones adopted by the plenum of the Congress. Both the general character and each
practical detail in the work of the sections attracted the attention of delegates, 060-
especially from distant corners, where the proletarian has to do everything himself -
to be both a political leader and an administrator and almost an expert in
a wide variety of areas. Re

All sections: literary, musical-vocal, theatrical, visual
creative arts - pointed out that there are outstanding workers in the localities,
but the province is not in a position to satisfy them, so Ts.K. Proletkulta
must create higher central studios. The congress decided to organize.
in Moscow “Palace of Proletarian Creativity” with the corresponding departments
niyami, in which’ rabodied talents, could improve in their chosen
them areas. At the same time, the Congress firmly indicated that between all the arts
There must be an organic connection, which is especially pronounced in.
theatrical action. b

By obliging studios to participate in artistic and propaganda performances,
nias and in various public celebrations, the Congress emphasized that
The first arena for demonstrations of achievements is the “Club of Proletarian Culture”
tours." _- :

Club work is fraught with interdepartmental disputes and friction, but
The Congress could not refuse clubs, since Proletkult clubs have their own
specific tasks and differ in the nature of work from other organizations
tions, being laboratories of a new way of life and the development of proletarian self-
activities.

Literary section, speaking out against futurism, symbolism and
other “new” trends in bourgeois literature, decided to organize
vat at Lat.-Ed. Ogd. All-Russian Proletkult artistic pro-
Letarian magazine.

The music and theater sections gave a number of specific instructions.
studio works.

The Fine Arts Section debated the question of the connection between art
with production and passed a resolution calling for all work to be put on.
principle. close relationship.

Heated debates took place on the issue of the children's Proletkult. It was full.
the consensus is that to develop elements of communist psychology and
you need to engage in art, especially music, from childhood, and not at 80 years old,
when hearing and fingers become rough; but not everyone agreed on the position
that we need to open children’s Proletkults now.
78 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. : No. 17—19

Since this question is related to many other problems
children's life, the Congress proposed to Ts.K. Proletkult the issue comprehensively
develop for the next “Ride”.

In connection with the organization of Glavpolitirosvet comrade. A. Lunacharsky, as
People's Commissar of Education, raised the question of the relationship
N. K. Nrosv. and Proletkult. He said: “Standing on the eve of the organization
Glavpolitprosveta, which about ‘will unite all educational work among
adult population, we must resolve the issue of relationships
N.K. CPU. and Proletkult. Here it is necessary to note one feature that ensures
autonomy and inviolability of Proletkult. There is such a Proletkult
proletarian organization that establishes new forms of artistic
great creativity, striving to identify new proletarian talents. This
the task is not of the state apparatus, but of a free organization like the Pro-
letkult. From this point of view, the actions of Proletkult should be self-
worthwhile... A representative of Proletkult must be present at all
meetings of the art sector with voting rights. He's the same
is a member of the board of the Glavpolitprosvet. But communication should not be limited
only personal relations, & should be expressed in closer and
constant contact with these organizations. In all our enterprises
our first customer and consumer of government opportunities
is Proletkult. To protect his independence, it is necessary
indicate that he can join wherever he finds it necessary. Pro-
letkult can find support in the person of N.V.P., putting forward a revolutionary
new slogans of proletarian culture.”

This point of view caused a protest from one of the members of the Main
political education, and the question reached Ts.K.R. K.P., who proposed frac-
tion of the congress resolution on the entry of Proletkult into N.K. Prosv. on the floor
department. After a long and heated debate, in which many
accepted by the province, the communist faction due to party
Pliny passed this resolution at the congress.

On behalf of the Communist Party of America, the Congress was welcomed by Comrade.
Gurvich, and from the AiTiysk Communist Party - Comrade. Paul. Both decrees-
Validated that cultural conditions do not allow them to develop cultural
work among the proletariat, as Proletkult does, but they are convinced
us; that the time is not too far off when they will also have Soviet

‘the power of the working masses, and then they will come to studyI'm with my Russian comrades.

Comrade A. made a report on the tasks of the International Bureau of Proletkult.
A. Lunacharsky. :

Attending the Congress with belated delegates from the Regional Don-
of the Russian-Caucasian Proletkult 462 representatives, of which 107 as
guests. The congress consisted mostly of workers and communists. .

Despite the fact that Proletkult had to work in terrible
conditions, there was a shortage of workers and interdepartmental
friction with N.K. Pr.—the delegates worked with the greatest enthusiasm and great
the utmost hope that in the future all obstacles will be overcome. Entu-
The ziasm, consciousness and activity of the delegates were a guarantee of this.

The Congress sent greetings to the Communist International, Center.
Com. Ross. Commun. Party, comrade V.I. Lenin and the Red Army represented by
Comrade Trotsky.

During the Congress there was an art exhibition of the Moscow,
Petrogradek and some provincial Proletkults.

Elected to the Central Committee: Chairman P. Lebedev (BV. Polyan-
skiy), vol. Chairman: 4. Mashirov (Samobytnik) and B. Faydysh, secretary
V. Itatov; members of the presidium: I. Ermolaev, V. Pletnev, V. Savenkov; members
Ts.K.: P. Arsky, A. Bodanov, A. Boyuslovekiy, P. Vomin, I. Griporyev, A. Do-
Donova, N. Zorin, N. Kotov, G. Nazarov, I. Nikitin, K. Ozol—Prednek,
M. Tarasov and V. Titov. `

No. 17-19 at PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 79
Candidates to the Central Committee: F. Blayunravov, P. Vasiliev, 0. Vla-
Dimirova, D. Kozochkin, St. Krivtsov, I. Eudelli, N. Lukin, I. Somov, P. Tikhonov
and L. Tsinovsky.
- Half of the delegates to this Central Committee were selected from the provinces; years
works are beginning to bring forward conscientious and determined workers.
The following were elected to the editorial board of the Central Body “Proletarian Culture”:
A. Bodanov, St. Erivtsov, P. Lebedev = -Polyansky. Ag Mashirov-Samobytnik and V.
Pletnev. Candidates V. Iznatov and V. Faidosh.
You will have to work in more difficult conditions, but let energy and faith

by virtue of the idea they will overcome all difficulties.
V. Nunavin.

Congress Resolutions. _

Luo Report Center. Com. INseros. Lroletkult.
` (Speaker P.I. Lebedev-Polyansky). and

After hearing a report on the activities of the Center. Com. All-Russian Proletkulta,
The Congress recognizes that, despite the extreme unfavorable working conditions,
C; K. completed the ideological and organizational work assigned to him,
having developed it to the creation of the International Proletkult, and moves on to the obvious
in rare cases - s

The scope and nature of Lroletkult's work.
(Speaker P.I. Lebedev-Polyaneky).

1. Cultural and creative work is the main work of Proletkult;
cultural and educational work, as auxiliary work, is acceptable insofar as
how inevitable it is in creativity

2. In their work, Proletkults must have the closest contact
with the broad masses and institutions through which Proletkults could
influence the organization of a new’ life and check the value of your achievements.

3. In their work, Proletkults must still, before complete destruction
classes, based on the production proletariat. “>;s

4. The work of Proletkults should not so much expand as ideologically
go deeper.

The coming stages of proletarianization in the future.
(Speaker M. N. Smith), and

Access to all higher schools should be wide open
to the masses of the population. d democratization of higher education, “being a necessary
The next stage in the scientific achievements of the proletariat and peasantry is the
is certainly not the only or most important task of the working class. Its more important-
Our class task is the centralization of higher education, and the social
lization of science, i.e. a new systematization of the creative work accumulated by mankind
ical and cognitive experience - systematization which should forge
science is a powerful tool for organizing social labor.

The organizational prerequisite for achieving these objectives is
the creation of strictly class-based, both in the composition of the listeners and ‘in the spirit of pre-
submissions, proletarian universities and studios.

Proletarian universities and studios must be an environment in which
swarm, the sprouts of proletarian science, new as
on assignments that heand sets for herself, and according to the methods by which she
works. a

r
*
80 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: -_ No. 17-0

Therefore, the Congress invites the Central Committee of Proletkult to make every effort
to the creation of prolegarian universities and studios - laboratories of socialization
tions of science.

The preparatory stage for these universities and studios should be
serve scientific and educational circles of workers' clubs of Proletkult.

About the professionalism of workers in art.
(Speaker A.V. Lunachareky).

Having heard a report on the professionalism of workers in art, the All-Russian
Sezts.Proletkult finds:

1) The proletarian in his scientific and artistic creativity must
critically use the skills of professional artists of all kinds
art of both academic and innovative directions, choosing from
them that which promotes. organizing something new. communist art,

2) At the same time, the prolegurisate must be aware that professionals
are by no means genuine bearers of any true art.
On the contrary, they either possess a weakened craft, achieved in the past
era of art, or are looking for the first steps of still uncertain new paths,
Moreover, in terms of content, the former live in the past, and the latter live in a certain
They have no content at all yet. :

The proletariat will see before them a concept completely alien to the professional
nalism of the past, creation. mass monumental art (especially
testr) and expressions of a completely new great communist
content. .

4) Proletgkult must highlight talented individuals from the working class
nits and contribute to the identification and special education of them and their transformation
becoming masters of the new communist art.

5) But I relate to the entire mass of Proletkult, without stopping at any
battle, must take care to develop the ability of the masses to perceive
mother of art and participation in mass artistic manifestations, such as
choral singing and rhythmic actions.

Resolution of the literary section.
(Speaker I. I. Sadofiev).

After hearing a report on the tasks of proletarian literatureeratures, All-Russian
The Congress, accepting the main provisions of the rapporteur, believes:

1) Proletarian literature, as a historical necessity, being
expression of the proletarian class-communist ideology and acquired
having a planetary character, there is the beginning of a literature that is non-class, universal,
eternal.

2) In order to develop and deepen flowing literature, it is necessary
immediately:

a) Move from amateurism, amateurism, to mastery, professionalism
lism. *.

6) Create at Center. Com. All-Russian Proletkult literary publishing
body department, which would obtain from the relevant government
institutions for the necessary technical assistance, without which growth is stunted
proletarian literature.

c) Organize a central literary school of the highest type and students
diy on the ground.

d) Organize an instructor bureau for the correct setting of work
bots are in place. b

e) Concentrate forces and resources, such as: recall the proletarian writers
tel from positions alien to their literary work, settle paperwork
ny question, etc. and, finally, create a literary and artistic magazine.

ha

No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 81

Note: To the editor of a literary and artistic magazine
includes: V. Kirillov, I. Sadofiev, Y. Berdnikov, P. Arsky and one
representative from the editorial board of the magazine “Proletarskaya Kultura”.

Resolution of the theater section.
(Speaker V. S. Smyshlyaev).

Taking the proposed report for practical guidance, the All-Russian
The Siysk Congress of Proletkult considers it necessary to accept the most decisive
new measures for the creation and education of directors of theater studios from
environment of the workers themselves.

It is necessary to undertake a wide publication of theoretical and guiding
literature on the issues of development of the proletarian theater; widely post-
promote mutual information about the experiments and work carried out between the provinces
both the center and the provinces among themselves; work on studying theatrical technology
nicknames are closely associated with social work. For successful execution
data of creative tasks in the construction of pRoletarian Theater, Congress
considers it necessary to create normal external conditions for the development of theater
ral groups: provision of well-equipped theater
premises, and the creation of a normal material environment for students
Diytsev.

In addition, the Congress instructs the Center. Com. All-Russian Proletkult organ-
to establish an Arena of Proletarian Creativity and a central theater, wherever
a number of experiments were carried out in the field of proletarian theater, and which
would serve as a living connection ‘between those scattered across. republic creative
groups of theater studios of Proletkult.

——,

Resolution of the music section.
(Speaker B.B. Krasin).

The All-Russian Congress of Proletkults, having heard a report on the issue of
dachas and methods of work of the music departments of Proletkults; believes:

1) What are the general provisions about the meaning of musical art `s pro-
letarian point. vision are already allowed in principle at the 1st All-Russian
Conferences of Cultural and Educational Organizations,

‘2) that music, like other areas of art, must come out of
certain framework of isolation, must absorb the spirit and pace of the time, its
struggle and creativity, both in the field of production and in all other
many regional cultures. On this path, musical art must find
dots with all other forms of art.

3) To establish close contact, unite and take into account musical
great experience of all Proletkults, Center. Com. All-Russian Proletkulta proposed
plans to open a music department.

4) For the practical implementation of the above provisions
take as a basis the proposed instructions, which are widely disseminated
throughout all Proletkults. )

y *

Resolution of the Fine Arts Section.
(Speaker A.I. Ivanov).

painting room

VDNAF report on electoral art, the Congress believes:

1) what must be the basis of all artistic activity?
establish the relationship between production and art and find out the meaning
the development of the latter for the organization of communist production,

2) what is depictedstriking art, as the depiction of objects that are not
is the only task of the proletarian artist, being a transitional
form to resolve the volume of constructively material and color problems,

Proletarian culture. No. 17-19. 6
`

82 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

3) that in parallel with the revaluation of all old art it is necessary
take into account the spirit and themes of the new communist era, which marks
break with old traditions.

4) Based on this, the Congress outlines the following task, which should
form the basis for all practical work in art studios Pro-
letculta:

a) ‘it is necessary to develop a general outline of the educational and organizational plan
in the field of fine arts,

6) eliminate subjective management methods, replacing them with free
creative principle, coordinated in the general scheme of educational and organizational
tion plan,

c) include in the studio work plan a scientific analysis of methods and creative
skoy technique of fine art, as well as demonstration experiments
solving creative production problems,

—) make studios obligated to participate in organizing festivities,
developing projects for them, and last but not least, how to educate creative
ical initiative.

5) The Congress instructs the Central Bank. `Proletkult to create a central
studio for scientific training of instructors in fine arts,
and also develop detailed instructions on organizational setting
works in fine arts studios.

6) The Congress, taking into account the creative activities of Proletkults, stated
believes that the visual arts of the proletariat are a vivid expression
creative will and a valuable tool of the proletarian RuZtura in construction
communist era.

Resolution of the club section.
th (Speaker R.L. Ginzburg).

After hearing a report on the club work of Proletkult, the All-Russian Congress
acknowledges that:

1) Proletkult Club, in terms of the basic nature and content of its activities
bots is a cultural and creative organization, on the one hand, as
organizational form uniting cultural-tvorcical work in the field
science and art and creating the best conditions for its development; with other
on the other hand, as a creative cell of the new proletarian life, leading
systematic work to deepen the class consciousness of club members
and to educate them in the spirit of labor collectivism.

2) Proletkult conducts cultural and educational work in its clubs,
considering it as an approach to work creative and aa excited
her questions.

3) Recognizing that cultural and creative tasks are public ‘and the resulting
of these, the special methods and nature of the work make it a club of advanced
type, it is necessary to consider the existence of “independent clubs Prolet-
cult along with clubs of other organizations and recognize it as desirable to concentrate
bring all clubs of the industrial proletariat under the jurisdiction of Proletkult.

Resolution of the organizational section.
(Speaker St. S. Krivtsov).

After listening to a report on studios and studio members, and zevenyai SaaA Prolet-
The cult decides:

1) Recognizing Proletkults as enterprises for registration
proletarian culture, instruct the Central Committee to achieve real material
providing scholarship holders—students, equating them to mobilized
students Vye. Textbook Head, and to destroy the ordinary petty-bourgeois white-
new plans to arrange communal houses for the students.
—

No. 17—19 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. t 88

2) For an organic connection with your class Proletkults obeluzhi-
satisfy the artistic needs of the working class free of charge. What does the stu-
Scholarship holders must perform at least 4 times per year. month, during combat
moments even more often; the needs of the front are also served.

3) To compensate for the temporary break from production, studio workers
must take a particularly close part in social and political
life of one’s class, party, council, trade union. _

In order not to lose the labor supply, introduce habitual participation in
cleanup days, in equipping and maintaining their studios.

4) It is necessary to strengthen political work among the students by introducing
in addition to the mandatory course of lectures, there is also a mandatory coursefailing the course
advanced party school.

5) When recruiting, do not strive to ensure that all students are
opportunities are delegated by industrial trade unions with retention
and connections with their industries.

6) Studio students must live inside their studios in an organized group
lective, for which they organize general meetings and elders within them.
Studios must unite with each other - both monotonous and diverse
personal types of arts, for which conferences are organized by regional associations
citywide, provincial and all-Russian.

7) The non-industrial element is allowed in the studio no more than 10°|,, with
what is the first thing that members of the Communist Party, adults, are accepted into?
young children of workers and party members in the organic
connection with OE

8) The Sgudians accept comrade. from 16 years old; from 14 to 16 reception with special
permission from the presidium of the local Proyetkultv,

9) Children of workers under 14 years of age are accepted only if Pro-
Letcults can serve the educational and educational needs of children.

a Resolution on children's proletcults.
(Speaker N.I. Serebrenikov).

All-Russian Congress of Proletkult, recognizing the importance of the issue
about children's Proletkults and expressing wishes for further development
this issue, the Center proposes. Com. All-Russian Proletkulta:

1) take into account what has already been done practically in this regard.

2) develop the question of the ideological content of children's Pro-
letkulta,

3) develop the issue of relationships with Proletkults of adults,
Union of Youth and Departments of Public Education.

Resolutions on organizational issues.
(Introduced by communist France at the suggestion of C, K.R.K.P.).

The basis for the relationship between Proletkult and Narkompros should be
according to the resolution of the 1st Congress of the R.K.P., the closest rapprochement of work
both organs. -

The creative work of Proletkult should be one of the components
parts of the work of the People's Commissariat for Education, as a body carrying out proletarian
dictatorship in the field of culture.

In accordance with this Centralth Organ of Proletkult, accepting ac-
active participation in the political and educational work of the People's Commissariat for Education, is included in
him to the position of a department subordinate to the People's Commissariat of Education and Science
in work in the direction dictated by the People's Commissariat for Education R.K.

Relationships between local authorities: Narobrazov and Pro-

Letkults are built according to the same type: local Proletkults as

6*
”
84 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 17—19

sub-departments in the Departments of Public Education, guided in their work
direction given by Gubnaroobraz, Provincial Committees of R.K.PP. Ts.K. gives
directives to the bodies of the R.K.P. and the People's Commissariat for Education to create and maintain conditions
viiya, which would provide proletarians with the opportunity for free creative
work in their institutions.”

(Speaker V.V. Ignatov).

In view of the 'decision to annex Proletkult in the center'
to the People's Commissariat for Education, and locally to its departments, to entrust C.K.V.S. Prolet-
kulga vyrabogag in accordance with this decision:

1) the program of work of Proletkult, specifically delimiting them from
works of art departments existing at the People's Commissariat for Education,

2) instructions for drying; &) relationship between Proletkult
with Narkompros and its departments, 6) financing and supply of materials
lami of Proletkult.

The central arena of proletarian creativity.

(Theses.)

1. Proletarian creativity—revolutionary organizing, the most pro-
its process is an intensely combative process.

3. Based on this, the place for identifying the creative achievements of the flight is
riata is conceived as a place where the struggle for communist humanity
improvement reaches its highest point. Therefore, choosing this
place, as a special institution name, we believe that it is appropriate
in keeping with the nature of proletarian creativity, an institution intended
to demonstrate in it proletarian creative achievements and experiences,
can be called nothing less than an arena of proletarian creativity.

3. Considering the arena of proletkult as an institution intended
to demonstrate in it all the proletarian creative achievements, we
thereby establishingm and a characteristic feature of the arena as an organiza-
tions of their designated activities to implement the principle of creative syn-
thesis in the field of spiritual culture of the proletariat.

4. In practice, the creative activity of the proletkult is divided into
two parts—scientific and artistic. Without touching each other, these
parts develop sideways, not holistically. The moment of implementation of the class
ous creative principle, which establishes the basis of proletarian creativity
quality - proletarian science, in the practice of proletcult there has not yet been. Build-
the arena eliminates the gap in the creative circle, since not a single work
will not be demonstrated without prior scientific class
lighting. :/

At the same time, the arena will contribute to a more systematic and gar-
monic development of proletkult works. It will help to eliminate sharply
the expressed tendency of exorbitant, compared with other industries
creativity, expand any one area, for example, theater.

Along with this, the arena will provide an opportunity to clearly take into account creative
techniques, experiments and methods and draw up guidelines based on them in everyday life
studio classes proletkult material.

It will also help to establish: does it express the nature of the products produced?
works that formed the basis for the activities of the proletkult of the principle of centrality
called unity of ideological, organizational and unity of work methods,
or contradicts them to any extent.

5. The central arena of the proletkult is a mirror of activity
Ts.K. Proletkult in general and, in particular, the mirror of each of its departments
fishing and special creative institutions.
No. 17-9 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 85.

6. Reflecting the activities of proletkult, the arena is not limited only to
center, it captures the work of proletkult on an all-Russian scale,
and, if possible, internationally.

For this purpose, the arena organizes reporting cycles of work of local flights
cults, by calling them to Moscow with reporting creative apparatuses and
materials. They will also be brought here for reporting speeches and work.
barrels tcreative circles that are not members of Proletkult, but conduct their own

work systematically and seriously.
| 7. The central arena is also the central point
practical agitation and propaganda of the ideas of proletarian culture.

8. Since the proletariat in creative achievements reflects the essence
its class consciousness, labor collectivism - as the basis of communism,
then the arena of proletkult will at the same time be an exhibition of the communist.
improvement of the proletariat.

9. The reporting cycles of the proletkult’s work in its arena should be
the nature of mass education and the mass involvement of the proletariat in
creativity. This is achieved by specially constructing a program that
should consist of four parts: a) a scientific report on the reporting
meta; 6) his creative process in individual moments; c) result - how
experienced achievement and d) exchange of opinions and summary of the speaker of the scientific part.

10. The reporting demonstration of the work of the proletkult is, firstly: in
series of mastering the cultural heritage of the past (according to strictly developed
plan) and, secondly, in order to identify creative initiative
Prosletariat. }

11. Branches of creativity synthesized by the arena, their production
organizations and the number of creative forces employed in them: central laboratories
ratorios—workshops: a) drama, 6) literary, c) music
vocal-vocal, d) musical-instrumental, e) fine arts,

_f) technical and applied studios, g) proletkult tribunes, 3) for the production
programs and plans for mass revolutionary celebrations, labor celebrations
by profession, etc. the organization of days of proletarian creativity and i) methodological
logic of proletarian creativity.

This workshop is an integral part of the scientific department. She lets you down
class scientific and theoretical basis for the work of all the listed students
diy and the arena itself as a whole.

12. Laboratories and workshops are under the direct control of the
pressing departments. .

The supreme governing body of the central arena of Proletkult Ts.K.
nroller cult. Directly governing and executive body of the arena
is the Council of Master Organizers.

The above theses, adopted as the basis for an organization that is already functioning,
raging Central arena of proletarian creativity, are offered as
guidance material for the construction of arenas by local proletcults
proletarian creativity in relation to their scale.

The practical expediency of such a body is indisputable, and therefore the establishment
waiting for him on the ground should begin now. t

This is all the more necessary because, according to the resolution of the All-Russian T
Congress of Proletkults of each of the Proletkult studios and creative cells
must report at least 4 times a month, meaning by this report
demonstration not only of achievements, but also of the creative process itself.

The establishment of the Central Arena of Proletarian Creativity
Proletcults have been put on a war footing. They should always be there
ready to immediately report to the center to submit the reporting cycle in Moscow
their studio works.

Combat readiness can only be ensured by the organization of an arena
Tara creativity on the ground.

e

V. Ignatov.

865. ` PROLETARIAN CULTURE No. 17-19

The day will come.
{Vision of the future).

They move harmoniously, their weapons sparkling,
The masses are a wave of combat.

This gigantic human power—
The body of the idea is alive,

Swimming proudly above the roar of traffic,
As if in a rush

Air and earth and sky merging,
Penya is rushing around.

"Away! stay away from the rich, the noble, the powerful,
The time has come for you to go under the grave.
The new ruler, gathering the storm, is coming.
° We are his name: the great working people!

“We know: we are not close to walking along the thorny road.
We will decorate it with a victoriously radiant song.
We will bury the past with her and honor her with dignity.
We, after all, are rightfully heirs to our ancestors.

"We are not gravediggers. We are builders of a new world,
For the sake of the work of the all-creator, we are destroyers,
For the sake of space for the constrained power of labor:

It is our goal, our guiding star.

“In our work, obedient to our commands,
Fire and Iron serve, the elements arestuffy,

Should we have lords and masters over ourselves, I
We must take control of the world and our destiny. .

“The world is poisoned by the senseless waste of life,
Lies and violence, fear and enmity are blinding.
In the last battle we will end the unity of enemies, -
What is torn, we will bind forever and ever.

“Watered with blood, the land will become more fertile;
The beauty of wild flowers will be nobler;
Speeches and caresses will cease to conceal deception;
x The streams of life will merge into one stream.

“The word of truth is powerless over old souls.
The time has come for us to convince them—with blows.
The new teacher brings the highest truth,
We are his name: the great working people."

The song sounds an immutable will
New world of creators. ^

Death or victory is their common share;
There is no third for fighters.

Wounds of the Immortal Body Ideas`
The blossoming of life will heal.
Free brotherhood of the sun is brighter
The Kingdom of Labor will illuminate,
1912.

No. 17—19

at

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

87

Chronicle of Proletkult.

1 Moscow City Conference
tion on the issue of construction
Letharsky Theater

November 14 in the Central Arena
Proletkult took place [Moscow City-
Sky Conference on the issue of ‘construction
proletarian theater. At the conference
there were 256 participants delegated by the ‘tea-
mine work circles and studios
at factory committees, at workers
sneeze clubs, under communist committees
Youth Union.

Comrade spoke as leader. P. M. Kerzhentsevs before
treasure on the topic “Break with bourgeois culture”
tour and with the bourgeois theater." Profesio-
nal theatre, -. he said, “you are in
exceptionally happy conditions. Theater
is subsidized, we treat it with
great interest. Theaters are crowded
spectators; even the worst ones can't

complain about the lack of audience. But ban-°

the gentleness of the modern theater, like everything
bourgeois art, undoubtedly. Theater
the modern is powerless to respond and understand
the greatest demands of the proletariat. Professional
The national theater has lost faith in itself. Even
I think a theater like the Art Theater
being the first in the world, did not live up togreat
expectations that were placed, for example, on
production of Byron's Cain. Staged
of this theater Byron's Cain was not revolutionary
Dioneer, who rebelled against God, and
neurasthenic, intellectual. Absolutely
incorrect interpretation. Priests of modern
theaters did not rise into stormy and fiery
the days of revolution have fallen. To this end
mixed in is also the “hack work” that infects
theater wives, tradesmen and
the most unprincipled attitude towards art.
There is no repertoire either. Contemporary theater
filled with old bourgeois plays,
born during the time of slaves. Break with
such a theater is necessary. Proving the need
the danger of a break with professional theater,
the speaker had a negative attitude towards such
called amateurism. Amateurism
whine. You need high skill. theatrical
no test. In this regard, the drilling technique
zhuaz theater should serve us as an example
rum, for the theater of the past, we will not deny
this, had great masters. Creating your
theater, we cannot do without specialized
stov, without theatrical art technicians.
We must use the services of specialists
sheets, how to use the service of specialists Kras-
nay army, how their knowledge is used in
‘economic reorganization in the Economic Councils
it. d. However, here too there are reservations and
limits are needed here. Moving on to the tasks

. proletarian thesis, the speaker pointed to

new methods to be introduced
when creating such a theater. We can't
be a division of acting into management
teachers and players. We believe that work
must be carried out by common efforts. Team-

new creativity, wide interest
all participants in theatrical work - that's what
necessary for the proletarian theater. Everyone
the participant must be a director, statements
voicing your opinion about the production. In our theater
The spectators themselves will also participate. Dozens
thousands participated in mass productions
in the open air in Petrograd. Speaker
further pointed out experiments in non-pricing, which
These are a new form of propaganda
propaganda ttheater They staged, for example,
measures, in working studios there are paragraphs of communication
stic program. In conclusion, the report
chick called for amateur performances and expressed
passionate confidence in success in creating
proletarian theater.

° Report by Comrade V.V. Ignatov was dedicated
question about the Central Theater Studio
and the arena of proletarian’ creativity of the All-Russian
of the Russian Proletkult, organized on the premises
construction of the 0. Hermitage Theater (Carriage Row).
The Proletkult Arena is an institution
designed to show everyone
proletarian creative achievements, for
systematic and harmonious development of the
Proletkult bot. Reflecting the activities of Pro-
Letkult, Arona is not limited to:
center; she captures the works of Proletkult
on an all-Russian scale. Regarding the speci-
centrally establishing a theater studio,
Comrade Ignatov indicated that the Central Theater
the main studio must be delegated
studio members not only of Moscow workers' organizations
nizations, but also provincial ones. Studio dis-
read for 150 students, of which 30-40 places
allocated to Moscow. Working Moscow must
give a shock advance group that
could be an example for visitors
work in studio. A new theater could be
created only by an actor from a proletarian environment
and adopted communist ideology.
Central Studio must rid us of
the need to take your positions in the future
tions to theater specialists of the opposite
us worldviews; she will create her own pro-
Tara leaders and organizers of the theater.

Delegated by Moscow factories
Votic theater circles, workers
clubs, district studios of Moscow
city and provincial Proletkults,
studios of the communist youth union
upon passing the probationary test they will
enrolled by students - scholarship holders of the Center
central Theater Studio.

In addition to this studio, Litera-
tour studio and then in the near future
Studio Musical-Vocal and Visual Arts
body arts Central Arena Pro
letkult will pay exclusive attentionmania
for the development of programs and for the device of mass
of our revolutionary labor festivals
professions, methodology. proletarian
creativity, etc. Reports will be arranged
long evenings, and not a single job will be done
shown without scientific-class coverage.

Returning to the Central Theater
studio and proletarian theater, speaker
88

especially emphatically emphasized that “the brain and
the heart of the proletarian theater is the deep com-
Munist education and education of all
taking part in its construction;
skill and form are just a dress
Tara theater, and we should not care about it
work first."

Comrade's report V.V. Ignatov (responsible
organizer of the Central Arena) was met
with great enthusiasm, Conference
unanimously approved the tasks and work plans
Central Arena and Central Theater
no studio.

The first cycle of reports and debates has opened
reports: A, V. Lunacharsky “Art and
revolution" and P. Lebedev-Polyansky "Pro-
Letarian Culture", and the reporting cycle of the studios is
nal works—demonstration of studio achievements
Moscow City Proletkult:

First Caucasian-Don Conference
rencia of proletarian cultural-pro-
lighting organizations.

September 25 in Armavir, Kuban. region, eo-
the 1st Caucasus-Don Regional Con-
conference of Proletarian Cultural-Enlightenment
organizations in the presence of 130 business
gats, members of the local organization R.K.P.i.
members of Trade Unions in the amount of 1200 people
century Honorary Chairmen of the Conference
tions were elected by t.t. V. I. Lenin, A. V. Lu-
Nacharsky and P.I. Lebedev-Polyansky, pre-
Chairman of the Conference—i.e. V. I. Medzhanov.
The conference honored the memory of F. I. Kalinin,
P. Bessalko and comrade. Zarnitsin (worker in
red seal area). During stormy and pro-
long applause Conference
sent greeting telegrams to Comrade.
Lenin and Trotsky, in the person of the latter,
welcoming the Red Army. Was sent
also greetings to the International Bureau
Prodletkulta. From the report on the activities of the organizationa-
nization Bureau that arose. in March
1920, it is clear that work on
organization of Proletkults began in Don-
region, where the Rostov-Nakhichevan-
Proletkult, 5 clubs organized,
11 regional studios have been opened in Rostov. B
Rostov was arranged with great success
“Proletkult Day” (with a procession around the city),
a temporary office was organized in Stavropol
Proletkult was convened in Yekaterinodar
City Proletarian Conference. Kul-
tour and educational organizations, in May-
city Proletkult was opened in Vladi-
Caucasus Tersky Proletkult, where they have already begun
function dramatic and musical
but-choral studio. Widespread propaganda
work is being carried out in Grozny and Azerbaijan,
where the Azerbaijani branch is organized
Proletkult Bureau. To Azerbaijani language
brochures and posters were translated, work began
attend Proletkult in Baku. Literary-From-
the publishing department published collections for practical
tical work of instructors and workers
Proletkult, posters, leaflets, appeals
etc. The collection “In Memory of F. Kalinin” was published
and began publishing a monthly magazine
nala, whose task is to illuminate the fundamental
new ideas of Proletkult and broad agitation.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 17—19

A number of reports were made at the Conference
but issues of Proletarian Culture and
Sens strictly ideological resolutions, which are
demonstrate a deep understanding of the tasks. By
report on the International Bureau of Proletkult
The conference decided to translate into
Caucasian and eastern languages of proletcults-
Russian literature. The conference approved
Charter of the Caucasian-Don Proletarian Council
skih Cultural and Educational organizations.
The council included, among other things,
stagers from Georgia and Armenia.

Front troupe Moscow. Lip. Pro-
letkult.

In July, the 8th front-line troupe of the Moscow
Provincial Proletkult (factory workers
6. Chetverikova) staged a number of performances on
front and in the frontline zone. The troupe has...
was a great success and brought 24 reviews once
ny organizations. E

Threeperformances were staged for Labor
shelf Gorky's play "At the Depths" was on. This same
The play was performed at the Gollandeky Solyany Theater
mine. “By staging this play,” they say
in the review of Sov. Slave. Dep.>, - the proletariat is still
once proved that a free worker can
work and study at the same time
everything that had hitherto been unsatisfactory to him
"Stupidly."

Polit. From. Military Rev. Sov. South-West front
notes in his review that the evenings arranged
troupe of the Moscow Gubproletkult,
“they left an undeniably healthy, fresh impression
decay, laying the skeleton of a genuine proletarian
sky theater".

Donokaya No. Division M Cavalry Army Pi-
Shet: “the fighters of the entire division are confident that similar

‘Moscow’s gifts will help them win

enemies not only by force of arms, but also of spirit,”

The troupe received the same warm response
The Red Army soldiers of the M Rifle Brigade, from
counted 7-day rations in favor of Moscow-
ski workers, from Polit: Dept. rear units
No. of the army that expressed the wish that
henceforth they were sent from the center to stage
performances and concerts similar pro-
Tar troupes”, from the Ukrainian Labor Art-
missions of the Donetsk basin, from Rev. Military, Sov.
Caucasian Front. Performances on this front
they attracted over 10 thousand people and had
whether, as can be seen from the review, “a great educator
significant significance” by the consistency of the repertoire and
the working composition of the performers."

Polit. Dept. Southern railways dor. at the station Meli-
Poplar writes in his review: “The play “At the Bottom”
passed before our eyes before,
but never experienced such pleasure -
there was a huge crowd, just like this time when they played
comrades workers." : :

Executive Committee of the Maksimovsky Mine and Kult.-
Enlightenment Commission of the Golubovsky mine after
performances and concerts of the Moscow Prolet-
cult decided to organize Proletkults on
these mines.

“You have revived my soul,” writes the Military Commissar°
Labor Regiment.

Free concert at one of the points
was given in an original and rare circumstance
new The troupe gathered in full force in
No. 17—19

the forge building, among the anvils and forges.
The concert begancame immediately after work. Usta-
bare faces. brightened up after hearing cheerful songs
north... E

Performance on et. "Bataysk`, Vladikavkazsk.
and. etc., gathered 5 thousand people. The play "At the Bottom"
made a huge impression. The audience
flocked to the performers—workers with military
no thanks.

The same troupe served Strelkova’s units
Divisions of the Active Army, having organized 15 spec-
tactics and 6 concerts, etc. military. ed and working
whose organizations.

The trip of this troop can be considered a success.
-

In the province.
In proletkults.

Kuznetsi. In the local newspaper "Sickle and Molot"
The article “Is it necessary to
Proletkult for us? The article pointed out
the need for the immediate creation of a span
cult, as a “purely class labor organization”
nation directing its efforts to create
proletarian culture." “To the proletariat, say-
It was stated in the article that it is not enough to visit theaters, for
it is more important for him to create his own culture, to establish
their plays, produce their own artists, musicians
cants, singers, artists who would
do reveal collectivity.”

Belev. Belevsky PNroletkult staged
the play "Vanka the Keyholder". In response to this
a letter appeared in the local newspaper
Red Army soldier, which stated that

such performances can only separate people from each other.
-working mass. It's time to give it all up, they say

said in the letter, it’s time to teach the worker how to
take real art."

Tula. All rallies take place in Tula with non-
indispensable participation of Proletkult workers,
who organize concert departments and
they put on short plays.

Syzran. Through Proletkult for the sick
and wounded Red Army soldiers who are in
713 hospital, performances are staged. Performances.
According to the local newspaper, they are going well.

Tambov. According to the proposal of the Gubkompart, there is
organized by the provincial Proletkult
trips to the villages of the Gubproletkvult choir.
Members of the R.C.P. are sent with the choir.

Ivanovo-Roznesensk. Ivanovo - Voznesensky
Gubproletkult staged a performance for the red-
army men. The poem was edited
Nikitina ‹ Owner" On behalf of the Prolet garrison
the cult is thanked for its attention
to vol. Red Army soldiers Gubproletkult post-
forged this dramatization in the village. Kokhme.

Izhevsk In the Izhevsk Proletkult arose
question about: relations to technical management
studio workers. At Proletkult it was observed
a certain tendency of some people and
technical managers violate the norms

small camaraderie through po-.
Higher wage requirements. Vo-

the matter was discussed in the presidium, which recognized
“this kind of phenomenon is unacceptable in
life of the proletarian “organization”.

Smolensk Smolensk Proletkult was
an exhibition of the Izrazitel studio was organized
of the Arts, This reporting report has met
tila a harsh review from the local newspaper “Rabochiy”

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

89

way”, indicating that the studio is developing
impressionism. Proletkult, says the newspaper,
organization that produces proletarian
ideology. The planting of impressionism is not
acceptable.

Penza. Evenings organized by Proletkult

collective music took place with great effort

home The performers set out to make do
without a conductor, i.e. without the guy who takes
take responsibility for completing tasks
and the wishes of the author. In small things this task
They were successful, but the big ones weren’t. Despite
however, for some shortcomings, says
local newspaper "Red Banner" - participants
were up to the task. _

Volsk. A conference was held on organizing
tions of Proletkult. Included in the conference
included representatives from the R.K.P. Union of Cooperation

‘Ratives, Union of Communist Youth

and others. The conference on July 22 made a decision
organize Proletkult.

Samara. Samara Proletkult in summer
an extremely interesting beginning was conceived
knowledge. For propaganda work of Proletkult
it was decided to organize a campaign for the whole summer
tion train for servicing Samaro Zla-
toustinekoy zhel. dor. from Samara to Zlatoust.
The train should organize concerts and rallies
with the participation of a choir, orchestra, soloists-musicians
comrades and singers, readers, reciters, storytellers
chikov and so on. Litecamera studio should
publish flyers and a small newspaper.

Workers' clubs.

Petrozavodsk. Central worker commu-
nistic club was opened on October 16 by workers
Petrozavodsk. The club's slogan: “Be more organized
Employees must be members of the workforce
what'club". Clubs are a school of proletarian
public, says the appeal to the father
roof of the central club, this is a workshop
proletarian culture, where weight is based on
independent work of the participants themselves.

Ryazan. Local workers decided to expand
"Karl Marx" club for 2 thousand participants.
Local housing department for removal "Izve-
sty", does not go far towards meeting the aspirations
workers' organizations, about which “with pain in my heart”
and write in the newspaper.

Kostroma. "Red World" describes the evening
in the first workers' club: Smiling. faces,
lively meetings of former acquaintances, hymns
"International" and "Marseilles" - all challenging
increased vigor, mood and strength. "Comrades
workers - talk in the newspaper - workers' club
this is our club, this is our place of communication,
the center of our emerging culture. Here
we will get everything we need for
strengthening its organization, power and
struggle. Let us consider him an instrument of this _struggle-
we would become its members. More united
strength, strength."

Vyazma. A club named after Zhelyabov was opened.
Velsk. The local flying club organized “Non-
dividing aid to the Western Front", arranging
performances and evenings.

Vologda. Local proletarian club organiza-
organized sports for the proletarian at the club
youth.

Livny. Gas. "Free Plowman" indicates,
that the workers' and peasants' club, which arose in
90 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

Livnakh, for a long time I didn’t find a corner where
could have sheltered, but; finally found it somewhere
off the beaten path, on the outskirts of the city. Premises, rented
planned by the club, can only accommodate a hundred
people, and trade union members in Livny are about
3.000...

Yu:nov. On August 19, the club named after Luna was opened
Charsky The opening took place with extraordinary vigilance
feminine. In the speeches of representatives of different
organizations present at the opening,
confidence was expressed that the culturalpro-
lighting work will help you get rid of
slave oppression and ignorance that reigned
under the rule of the bourgeoisie, and unite
for conscious work.

Astrazhan. The first pro-
letarian cinema. This cinematography
built exclusively by working coopers.
Working comrade Lupnov writes about this
in the local newspaper: “produced the most
impression and surprise that the dynamo
the tire was driven by a cooper, a film technician
managed the cinema cooper, string
The orchestra is also composed of coopers, like this:
piano, violin, mandolin and balalaika.
Involuntarily\with sadness you remember the past, which
where we, the workers, were not allowed to turn around and
expand our minds, our. eagerly
niyam. .

Belizh. It was decided to involve in the workers' club
participation of the local union of communist youth
bowls The club should turn, in my opinion
founders, to a corner of knowledge and relaxation.

Murol. The local club hosts parties
ra of revolutionary satire. All numbers are
staged by local authors.

Issues of proletarian culture at the congress
events and conferences.

Questions of proletarian culture are lively inter-
interested in the province. Here are the most
interesting messages;

Vladimir. It was convened in Vladimir on July 6
Vladimir City Conference Cultural
tour and educational organizations. On this
The following issues were discussed at the conference:
sy: tasks of the working class in the field of science
and art; forms of organizational work
working class in creating a proletarian
culture. Attended the conference
delegates from trade unions and
Red Army units, from party organi-
nizations and from all cultural and educational
civil and military organizations.

Izhevek. On September 5 in Izhevsk took place
3rd Regional Conference of Proletkult. All
speakers called for close unity
workers near Proletkult. Union Metalli-
stov, it was noted at the conference, is the first
responded to the call of Proletkult;, uniting
its cultural and educational activities
around the proletarian organization - Prolet-
cult. Unionom created cultural and educational
telny "A" in workshops, issued sub-
Sidia Proletkultu at 100:000 rub. etc.

At the workshops of Izhevsk there are 35 cultural
tour-educational cells working with
Proletkult.

Alexandrov. 2 July Alexandrov-
District Congress of cultural and educational
ny organizations. The main question on

No. 17—19

At the congress there was a question about the creation of Proletkult.
The following reports were heard: “Two cultures”?
Comrade Fomina, “Ideological tasks of Proletkult”
Comrade Lyubimova, “Professional movement
and Proletkult" comrade. Gavrilova. In e reports,
according to a local newspaper, they covered the work
the nature of the Proletkult being created and its significance
in the life of working people in the area. Solved in 0-
build a District Proletkult in Aleksvandrovo.

The village of Bogovlovo, Vladimir district and gzu-
Bernia. On October 9 in Bogoslovo ‘a
performance by youth. Before we start
performance with a speech about proletarian culture
Comrade spoke Sedov. According to the newspaper
“Appeal”, “the speaker’s speech was covered with thunder-
Mom of applause."

Orenburg. 18 October brya circle. local pro-
letarian writers staged a debate about the prole-
Tara art. "The dispute, according to
local newspaper "Kommunar", was called by the idea
great confusion on fundamental issues
proletarian creativity and should have been tired
renew the commonality of views, since the circle
intends to transfer her work to the masses,
having established relations with the Red Army units
and other workers' organizations."

Samara. At the city conference outside
school cultural and educational institutions
expectations and organizations discussed the issue of
tasks of workers' clubs. Upcoming participation
this conference was attended by representatives
working faculty of the local government
nogo university.

All-Russian Congress of Proletarian Writers
lei found a response among proletarian writers
fathers of Samara. In the local newspaper "Commune"
a proclamation was published on the need
attend the All-Russian Congress and
about the unity of all proletarian writers.
It was further indicated that in the opened Ca-
Mare "House of Printing" pRoletarian writers
you need to come in organized.

Nizhnich-Novgorod. In Nizhny Novgorod Kom-
mune”, in reports on lectures and debates indicate-
depends on the absolute need to put
another issue in the discussion on topics about
proletarian culture. These discussions are said to be
rit newspaper, especially desirable for parties -
organizations, “because they teach you to think,
involve comrades in work in this area and
give meetings a collective character
studies of proletarian creativity."

Serpukhov. The newspaper "Kommunit" publishes
October 20 appeal “To Proletkult”. "Thought
the creation of Proletkult was raised more than once,
but was not implemented, or maybe
there were simply no organizers, or they were ardent
took on this big task right away and didn’t focus on
Lily>. "To Proletkult"! Strength and energy -
to the front of education - educating the masses in
our class spirit."

In the near future it has been decided in Serpukhov
convene a conference ‘to organize a Pro-
letkult.

Tambov. On September 5, a meeting was convened in Tambov
4 Provincial Conference of Proletkult.
Local Izvestia published a special
issue “The Coming Culture” dedicated to
Proletkult. Printed first
“International Proletkult—Bulletin of the World
howl of the proletarian revolution."
No. 17—19

In this issue there is an appeal from the International Bureau
Proletkult, a number of notes about Proletkult, etc.

Vyatka. After hearing a report on the organization
cultural and educational departments, Sh General
The provincial Congress of the S.R.P.P. passed the following
resolution, “recognizing 060bo as an important activity
activity of cultural departments in eliminating non-
literacy, as well as the introduction of broad
of the working masses to valuable cultural achievements,

` active creative participation of these masses in

creation of his own proletarian dictatorship, pre-
imposes on all district departments and sections
to promote by all means the development of cultural
work on the ground."

Bryansk. At the regional conference of the union
glaziers considered the issue of cultural
tourism and educational work in the Bryansk
waters The need to create
of proletarian culture. One ofreport-
Chikov, focusing on the history of “Maltsov-
shina" (the owner of the plant) noted that during
during the Maltsovshchina, workers
fell like a serf working animal. Not-
it takes a lot of work; to
knock out this rabid "Maltsov" spirit from
Maltsov workers." The conference called
to friendly work in the field of education and
workers' culture. ,

“Lipetsk. On August 18, the first organi-
nization meeting of the union of proletarians
writers. By all those present unanimously
the need for such an alliance was recognized.
A project has been adopted for the construction of a large workshop
railway workshops, which can accommodate several thousand
spectators, proletarian evenings. literature.

Theatres, workers' palaces and studios.

Simbirsk Workers' and Peasants' Large
the theater opened with a renewed troupe.
The entire cast of the proletarian drama entered the theater.
Gubotnaroba mathematical studio. To the repertoire
By the way, all the plays are included. A. Luna-
Charsky

Izhevsk A troupe plays at the People's House
visiting artists, in the community club
ny circle. The repertoire included between
among other things, the dramatic sketch “At Dawn”. Place-
The new newspaper “Izhevskaya Pravda” is completely un-
correctly calls both these theaters proletarian
ekimi: nothing proletarian in the repertoire
not in the productions.

Petrozavodsk. "Olonets Commune"? udi-
It turns out that the repertoire of the local theater for
railway workers and employees including
there are plays in which in all cases the
the noun “love” is expressed and conjugated
in all types and moods the verb “to love”.
Conscious workers, according to the newspaper briefly
which characteristically express their attitude towards
such plays. h

Eagle. The local theater has a repertoire. from plays
Ostrovsky. Print © with great sympathy
belongs to this repertoire, finding that
Ostrovsky's creativity is completely devoid
those shortcomings that are so rich in time
alternating, tendentious and biased plays.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 91

Kostroma. Propaganda play, writes “Kras-
World", must satisfy two requirements -
vaniyam—artisticost and agitation.
"From this point of view, traveling through
theaters of the Kostroma province play “Red
star “absolute zero,” says the newspaper.
“We need to protect the stages of our theaters from
theatrical speculators."

Syzran. On the stage of the Syzran theater with us-
"Red Robe" Brieux is walking on foot.

Izhevsk “Izhevskaya Pravda” reports the following
next episode: November 1, Izhevsk Prolet-
the cult had appointed a play to be staged
local proletarian writer Vishneveky
"Andrey Kozhukhov." Tickets were distributed
we are among the workers. But to our greatest
Unfortunately, they write in the newspaper, it didn’t take place, so
as a leading role member of Vserabis
refused to play in the proletarian theater,
saying that this play is imperfect. Conflict
remained unresolved.

Pekhov. The opening of the Work-
Peasant Theatre. They posted “Someone else’s good”
it doesn’t do any good.” In the vetupitol word there was
it is indicated that from now on the proletariat and peasants
people begin to create theaters for themselves. And fulfilled
spectators and spectators were exclusively’
workers and peasants.

Ruzaevo. In the Ruzaevsky People's House,
den cultural and educational circle but-
good order, according to the “Power of Labor”. Before.

` at the beginning of the performances the names of the pro-

accused of violating the charter and regulations
influence mug. This radical technique
is called very useful. All performance time
lei order is exemplary; no shouts, no
smoking, no peeling of seeds...

Samara. An evening took place in the town theater
Samara poets and writers, dedicated to
Russian peasants.

Shuya. In order to prepare from the workers-peasants
Yan youth artists, Shuisky Nar-
how the Drama Studio is organized,
After three months of preparation, some of the studios
tsev left at the theater for artistic
activities. They go to the railway house
performances with the participation of young artists. Re-
repertoire from Ostrovsky's plays.

Simbirsk An “Orphanage” was organized for
children of the working population. Furniture, paintings
and in general the whole environment for this children's room.
palace donatedcity regulations
who were very sympathetic to this or-
organization b:

On October 5, open the Palace of Working Youth
life named after Karl Liebknecht.

Bryansk. The “Palace of Workers” issued an order ©
involvement in work on culture and education
the use of all capable forces of the plant.

Malmadyli. Kazanekoy 20. Open in the city
permanent exhibition of children's creativity.

Livny Oryol city Grand opening
Red Army Theater On the opening day eats
famous figures in their speeches with bright colors
outlined the struggle of the proletariat for freedom
and illuminated the importance of theater for working people

92

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 17—19

'Bibliography.

Alexander Worker. Horns. Edition Vyat-
of the Provincial Committee of the R.V.S.M. 24 pp.
Price 10 ru0.

In connection with the book by Alexander Rabochy
I would like to point out the disease of time. Everyone
as soon as he puts together a few rhymed lines,
check, seeks not only to place them in the ha-
zeta, but release the eborn as soon as possible
com, even if it contained only a few
Nichek. Such collections on the book market
Already a lot. Their authors in the future will themselves
be annoyed at your haste. Having grown up
like poets, they are aware of their shortcomings and,
like N.A. Nekrasov, they will collect their own
collections to remove them from circulation. Not-
processing of content and form, sometimes
in the most elementary respect, character-
This is a common feature of all these new poets.

And among this rhyming barren flower
things fall that speak of the poetic
creativity, but they get lost and die, like
white field flower, by the will of nature
included in the tall weeds.

Here is the book “Beeps”. There's a dozen and a half in it
poems, but no more than a thread should have been published.
The author always takes on a general theme—hey!
there is a struggle, we will win, but he
does not develop, but simply repeats; re-
barks, although in different words, but boringly.

Here are two examples:

1) “Hello, red freedom,
Radiant dawn,
The power of the people will shine,
The bright happiness of grief’...

2) “Far away in the darkness of the night
With a fiery call of grief,
Rose victoriously for the slavegasp
Freedom red dawn...

After all, this is an obvious repetition, almost a word
per word.

Or:

1) ‹Everyone whose heart is bright, young,
The will is strong as steel.
All under the banner of the Commune
Into the unknown distance...

2) “In whom the heart has not had time to cool,
Who is young with a free soul -
To fight for a great cause
Let’s all rush forward with vigorous footsteps.”...

And here is a simple paraphrase.

There are many such examples...

The author doesn’t know how to find topics, he doesn’t have
and bright, bold, strong, burning images; I
not to mention the novelty. "The strings rumble"
“radiant dawn”—how old and familiar it is.
His rhyme is also weak - mostly pas-
reliable (stormy - zealous, steel - hard-
vye), or verbal (they sang on fire,
let's wave and sing). There are absurdities: “songs
ours, like a stream of seaside foam,” firstly
Well, the foam never flows in a stream, that's it. inconsistency
glaeno with the laws of nature; secondly, that
is seaside foam? There's no point here. Not
I would like to compare our songs © at-

sea foam; foam causes performance
about something temporary. fast! disappearing.

“Be bolder without the doubt and trembling of the free
creators of the world." The word "shiver" is used
for the rhyme of "youth", but every reader,
even if he is not whimsical, he will immediately feel everything
its irrelevance.

The author needed to work out things that
which his talent is felt, for example:
“I don’t want to be a great accordion.” "Towards the sun,
to the fiery sun." "Songs of the Future". A
then you will come across a line that the proletarian is pouring
“songs are daring” and you see that ‘the author used
beat the word “daring” exclusively for riff-
we ourselves feel that it is inappropriate, since
“daring” evokes the idea of revelry
arrogance, recklessness; not like that, of course
working class songs.

We will say just a few things about the content.
words; it is revolutionary, in places deeply
imbued with a proletarian mood, but not
expanded. }

Alexander the Worker needs to work more
over yourself and over the poems. And most importantly it is necessary
hurry to type what you have written, correcting it
your verse many, many times, as I did
great poet A.S.Pushkin. up to

Soldering iron. Poetry. Publication of Literary
(From the Smolensk Proletkult. 90 pp.
Price 10 rub.

This small collection of poems is written
seven authors, aspiring poets - students
Indians, but by their character and mood
he represents something unified, ideologically
certain, more. Turning the pages
ki, you feel that the authors lived as a single collection -
tive thought. Similarity of topics, homogeneity
their interpretations and sentiments, often borrowed
sharing each other’s images, of course, Stushev-`
determine the individual brightness of one or the other
gogo author - but the important thing is that they were able to
merge into a single creative team, which
which is still monotonous, but which is in the future
with its unity, harmony can shine
highly welded individual features
news.

According to the manner of the mood of the verse and interpretation
this makes the collection stand out from a number of other provinces
cial collections, but it is clear to us that in
This seemed to be the influence of the studio head.
This shouldn't happen.

There are good things in the collection, but there are
things are completely undeveloped. They are all pro-
riddled with proletarian sentiment, but not
how much is one-sided, what almost everyone suffers from
poets. The brush of insight into the depths of the future
times At times one feels like a copycat
arrogance, lack of thought, inconsistency in
thoughts and images and along with it the old fashioned way
mannerism.

“Autumn Cold” by Shevelev and “Love of Time”
menu" Grishin is not only not developed according to
content, but also thoroughly imitative in
its form.

S. Otradny next to a successful poem
nium ° "Sweep" places strange verses
No. 17—19

"Nlug", in which lines like "And evening
and early times" were copied from Nikitin, and "sta-
ry. friend" - a plow, it turns out it didn't help much,

“And the author would have “broken it” long ago, but he was

tied up with a “steel rope.” "Old" is strange
friend”, who is not broken only thanks to
slavery. Here the topic is undeveloped and even
inconsistency. Why these neglects?
body lines:

“I won’t shed tears over you,
A decrepit friend abandoned by me.”

Of course, we do not melt wastein
the eternity of the history of the tool of labor of this or that
goy era, but we do not and cannot have a square
him of anger, neglect and irritation.

“On the clock” by Kiselev, “Sailor” by Dukor, esp.
especially the latter, they breathe passivity in front of
fate, which is absolutely unusual for work
what class? And these verses are absolutely not a guarantee
montage with other verses of the same auto-
ditch .
The images reminiscent of antiquity: “god-man” (in
to avoid religious terminology altogether

`logiya), "light-feathered", "lyre", etc., - and ma-

G

the words are nervously imitative: “pinned on-
your eyelids are like a bayonet”, “breaking with crowbars”; too much
“subtle” images: “the gray twilight is drowning in the
in the bast fog,” or “and rises from the stuffy waters
ghost of vapors."

Romanov has good poems “Beauty
Labor,” and suddenly he comes across the lines,

"Closer, closer, honey,
Closer in a spiral

All gossip is from the power of I...
Honey, are you all right?”

The “spiral” stuck out out of place here
V. Aleksandrovsky, and in general there’s something here
abnormal-foggy and little intelligible.

Comparisons of “ties” with “jellyfish” are unsuccessful, -
"proletarian stonemason" who gathers
to trim the “Everest and Cordillera chains”, with
“dredger worms”, - “calloused hands with
with an iron rake" and "fingers" with a "sharp
saber." e

The moon should not be dressed in a “tunic” if
It’s hard to find a rhyme for the word ‘zhi-
tel".

You can find quite a few shortcomings in “Payal-
Nika", but the point is not in the shortcomings, but in the fact that
there are things that deserve attention.

We include: “Scope”, “Once again”,
“The Beauty of Labor”, “Let’s Weave Crowns”, “Alenka”.

The creative journey for the comrades has begun.
It is thorny, but also joyful. In p

Nick. Popov. Songs of the Plain. Poetry. Publishing house
union of the Art Workers Trade Union. Ostash-
something 16 pages. Price 25 ru0-

Popov's poems compare favorably among
things of many peasant poetoses. True,
they do not shine with either depth of content or
clarity of thought, nor originality of form,
but for that there is no antics or inventions in them
“unheard of” words and “unseen” forms.

Simplicity is their characteristic. In this regard-
nii Popov does not stand out from the group of oldx
poets. But for that he still has nohoye
content. His peasant worker is not a hundred
no and does not whine from overwork, he does not

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

95

waiting for help from God: Following my lane”
he%sums in a new way.

"It was dark before,
And now life is illuminated with us.
`With firm faith in the future, with faith
: in people
We will increase the volume of grain.”

He does not seek salvation in his individual
in a new economy, property does not appeal to him.

“The plowman plows, thinks:
If rye came up the pole,
I would please everyone with bread,
He would have fed everyone to their heart's content.
And in return there is a factory pipe
Calico..., velvet, silk fabric
Let me shout with a smile”...

Old grandfather loves “kunchy rye.”
He loves peasant labor and believes that
the “kids” will also leave him; he knows that

“Grandfathers, their fathers will enter the grave,
The children will create a mashiya in the noise
Friendly and joyful work."

Our diggers, of course, have very little soul
they are wagging about it. These are the thoughts and cherished dreams of ourselves
my author. This is what he says from himself:

“Labor is not scary for peasants, but the fry is small,
Eh, a steel car for the fields...
The rye would have sprouted shoulder-deep in the field.”...

Popov knows that proletarian poets and cries
tics strictly belong to peasant poetry
passing times - poetry imbued with centuries
nom, crying, howling, chanting, -
poetry that is deeply individualistic and pro-
abandoned by age-old humility.

But Popov also knows that the new village
there will be a “big plant”.

"There will be time, and the village

You won't recognize surprised.....
It's a big plant.
The dainty cars will hum

About the distant difficult were.

There will be no tired faces,
The people will live freely,
Only in songs will it be sung,
How they bent over the plow,
Pushing the horses.

And this faith in a new village, with new thoughts
words and feelings, going to a meeting, in
tribute to the city - this bright, tender, blooming,
a fragrant village is a faithful friend of stone
new, concrete, steel city with its
with noise and roar of sounds they snatch from the poet
words:

"Don't run away from the village,

Do not call thoughts vain,
What are born to her?

In the witheredsummer grasses,
In the swampy color-kupava.”

And the poet is right..... In the future, the discord of the city and
the villages will be destroyed. They will form a single whole
loe. And the people of the future will come to the fold more than once
"summer herbs" to breathe freely from
a fast running, impetuous city.

V. P-y

Xx
94

Capercaillie. Story. Publication of the Samara Department
leniya Centropechat. 16 pages. Price 2.1/0

The story "Capercaillie" is interesting as an attempt
collective creativity. Under the collective
By creativity we mean mainly
creativity imbued with collectivism
mood, but this does not exclude the possibility that
creativity can be collective and in
sense of fulfillment. "Glukhar" is not the first
torture of this kind; in previous issues
we already had to celebrate collectively
written play "Don't Go".

Participated in the development of the story
comrades of all ages, from 19
up to 34 years old, various professions and national
ties, they worked as a carpenter and a mechanic, a factory worker
worker with a watchmaker and peasants
Ninom, communist and non-party, - Latvian,
Jew, Great Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian.

The story has been written. whole, alive, development of the soul
welding movements of the boilermaker Uglov is given in

strict consistency; in a word, despite _

for minor but annoying mistakes,
tale in technical terms, from the outside
form, is quite satisfactory and will
read by the working masses with interest and e©0-
feeling.

Something else confuses us. The story was written in
romantic mood, Capercaillie revived
zeroed in soul, understood life and felt
yourself as the master of life not from the speech of the agitator,
not from penetration into the “tricky mechanics”
factory exploitation, but from the starry sky,
FROM the “green paths” on the river, from the “pearl-
deep sunset", from nature, which entered into
him and awakened him to a new life.

If the imitation of the old literature had an effect here,
ratio—it’s a small problem—it will go away with time—
this strip is coming. If there is the influence of the village here,
introduced by the authors - peasants, this is dangerous
her; and doesn't this give us a warning,
so that proletarian studios are st.rogo pro-
leterek, so that the mood of the working class,
at least temporarily, it didn’t fade under the strong
the pressure of the village.

In general, the attempt was a success.

In critical analyzes we often come across
tends to dwell on the smallest flaws
couples Sometimes, with complete sympathy for the auto-
ru, I want to correct every mistake so that
she did not repeat herself, because you see that she
not much comes out. from inability, how much from
ignorance. I will note a few mistakes and in this
nom story. °

The authors write:

1) “Grasp the doors of 6 malevolent ones (here and far-
above italics are ours) swallowed the ra-
barrels>. The word “gloating” spoils the impression
tion. It is inserted to give more
predation of the plant. But the “gloating grumble>>
doors are not typical for the plant; this detail
It’s artificial and it doesn’t add anything.
Of course, every author creates a setting
corresponding to the nature of its production
money; but its shortcomings are less noticeable when
the situation is taken on a broad scale, and, on-
turn, they rather rush and show their
artificiality when the scope of the situation is small
lazy, shrunken.

2) “The boiler swayed, rose up, crashed
groaned, sighing with an iron chest and, accompanied by

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

L№ 17—19

washed by everyone - with a whistle and a hellish knock, suddenly
rushed towards Uglov." This phrase is completely
The word “everyone” is not needed. With careful
reading this is clear without any comment.

3) “On the other side the top was reflected down
kami forest.” This detail is “tops down”—
again redundant. She has no clarity of thought
gives; everyone knows that the reflection in the river
the opposite happens - it also changes the mood
no.

4) “There were moments when Uglov forgot and,
without any purpose, admiring, looking, etc.”...
The words “without any purpose” are not needed here, so
how Uglov spent the whole evening and the whole night
so without “any purpose.” The angles are “forgotten”, and
wasn't his whole mood continuous
oblivion. h

5) Along the way. I’ll also note that annoying defect
in constructing a story that gives feeling
It is clear that the authors ineptly, deliberately prepared
drew the Capercaillie's attention to the crowd of workers,
whichI attracted him with me and served
the cause of rebirth.

And finally, the story would benefit from brightness,
if the authors had not fallen into excess in places
detail, scattering and distracting
reader's attention. 7

Attempt of the Samara Literary Studio
Proletkult deserves serious attention
knowledge and study, let the first experience not be completed

will fall..; “
th V. P-y.

Flashes. The first collection of poetry studio. From-
tribute of the Working Club of BVodnikov. V. Ustyug.
64 pages. Price not indicated.

The collection opens with a foreword by I. Lvo-
Va, who explains that his private school
diy arose on the initiative of youth, and co-
becoming her “quite diverse—starting
from worker to student."

The poetry of the participants of “Spolokhov” is so
it is characteristic that its authors can be guessed
and without Lvov’s orders.

Here is M. Pestkoveky; everyone will say that
he is a worker. Who can say so clearly and strongly
say: worker... and

“He is my brother, there are many of them, I am with them
I won't fall off the high cliffs.

I won’t fall even under blows,

And I will find the future.”

And naturally, “where the gears are
shallow”, he learned “that the genius of light”

“There is iron friendly Labor.”

And then a number of other cars appear.
ditch; who is “in the silent darkness of the soul”; who
“Like a wounded bird, it beats in its anguish.”

One

“The heart groans... the heart cries...
White seagull. screams...

Because she

“What is close will not answer...
What comes next will remain silent...

The other one

"In the distillation we ve trees
A terrible melancholy rushes by...

No. 17—19

One raves:

“This night I am yours...
We are alone this night...

And another comes “to the bend to be sad
by the waters"; with the eternal jack of melancholy" he is not up to
is called his Lida:

“Darling, Lida,
Life is short.
Come out, asavitsa,
There is a window into the garden.
The blood is spinning
At night in wine
Walks around, spoils

She's in her veins

For kisses
The night is created.
I won't give it to people
The secrets of your...
Dear Lida
Come out quickly."

And there is no doubt that the creators of “this intellectual
gentle whining, “singers” of kisses and nightly
visions, all sorts of trifles - schoolgirls
and students.

And what a pity that in this environment they find themselves
beyes. It's good that they are indestructible
the decaying influence of this “thick bourgeois
youth." ;

But maybe the students are not so much to blame
and high school students, as much as the leader himself.

Here is his poem “Poetry”:

“I dressed the goddess of thought in a tunic
Elegant images and a throne...
I wove a carnation into her wreath

And heliotrope for spring dreams.”

This is little better than the disciples; countries-
but one thing, why the head and with a carnation
and with heliotrope, and guided by © one
longing.
However, Lvov himself lives in the “Nightmare”.

"The dark night lasts long
Cha earth.

The wind is angry, howling
In the village.

No patience, no faith
Wait more

How it will flow to us without measure
Grace.

It's so bad it's terrible"
It's heavy.

Zorka dreams of amber
And ala.

On a gloomy night I have a terrible dream
Rubbish...

Let it light up soon
It's day in the sky. =

But this is from the pages of the White Guards
newspapers.

In these days of great victories, achievements,
movements forward and hopes - curse
life, compare it to a nightmare night, howl
in every way, like a stray dog... But who
this" maybe? Unhappy intellectual! And let
he howls for the time being. But why this
publish “rubbish”, and even on behalf of the workers
water workers sneeze. It's completely unclear. d.0

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

95

Farmer-Lashkov. Laugh demon of evil...
yang Centroprint. 1920. 58 etr.
Price 230 2у0.

In his collection, Gvtor gave poems for pe-
period 1919-1919. And it is naturally assumed
live that in terms of content and mood they
as diverse as life itself
during these years of war and revolution. But it's not
yes. Of course, the sounds became more confident, melodious
brighter, but the content remains old - the world
violence, slavery, “Demon of Evil” is opposed to
lies in the triumphant truth, “the peace commune”
noah—labor.”

The author's heart beats with the heart of the ra-
bogogo

In ancient years, when the poet,
bird, moaned;

like a woman

“I’m scared... Scared... On a dark night,
When with a depressed soul,

A nightmare of a day

I wander alone with longing.

And there are no boundaries to melancholy and doubts

About life new and different

In a tormented country—native"—

He lived "holy"and faith in a bright day"
And when that day came; he is passionate and
sang loudly:

"Sing in delight, peoples
Their own songs and hymns.

In honor of the blazing freedom,
In these bloody days."

But, as over the first period of creativity,
so the spirit of sadness blows over the second, passing -
in sadness; then and now one feels over-
a cracked heart and the brightest 'dreams,
delight and excitement" suddenly yes and
black cloud.

The author himself characterizes his main mood
terrifies, like sadness, “quiet, languidly tender”>.

“Like a deep dark sea...dark...
Like the distant blue sky, tenderly-without-
careless,
limitless-
huge."

Like an immense world,

And the poet loves this sadness:

"I love my sadness...

And how without the sunny-fiery joy,
Like a flower without a smile of rays,

Without you, my sadness is quiet, tender,

I am with my rebellious soul

The cup of life to the bottom

I won't drink

Prolyuo"...

The old world wounded the tender lyrical
the poet's heart, and this wound remained for a long time.
Quiet sadness and the passion of rebellion are intertwined in
one crown of thorns.

A rebellious soul with the eternal question: “what
will he throw life on my scales?—loves this life:
and “carpet of heaven at night” and “azure tent”,
spring “in flowers and roses”, cornflowers and silk
grass, but the disease does not give rest.

“Only the night is a dark veil
Will close the bright, bright day,

The world is asleep, the world is huge,
A blackening shadow will fall,
96 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

$

How in an instant a picture appears before me,
A picture of a day...

And in the soft, searching soul of the poet grows
“hatred and vengeance for vilely crushed flowers.”

“For a life broken by struggle

In the eternal pursuit of a piece,
A caustic and evil mockery
We brand humiliated slaves.

All this burden weighs on me

My weary chest

And I still can’t praise
A free, new, bright path."

The capitalist world has seriously wounded the youth
tired heart, but we believe that new life,
light, bright, joyfully solemn hall
reads this wound, and the poet will be able to glorify with
with all my passion.

“Free, new, bright path.”

Lashkov is a poet with a strong, deep feeling,
he is sincerely genuine in his experiences-
ideas and knows how to put them into poetic forms.

But he has not yet found his way; he has
a lot of repetitions, repetitions, imitations, and
Moreover, many poets, but this does not interfere with the
recognize his poetic talent. Strength and
its magnitude is still difficult to determine, but
I want to believe that in its development and in new

`under the conditions the poet will be able to give brighter thoughts
“tivs and in more advanced ones, and most importantly self-
* standing forms.

The collection contains several wonderful
cabbage soup, although not fully processed.

V. P-y:

Yu. Yuryin. “Silent Tongue” (Stenka Ra-
zine). A folk tragedy in 5 acts. State
Ed. Ptrg. 91 pages. Price 20 rub.

“Spoloshny Zyk” belongs to the best
dramatic things that have appeared over the years
our revolution. We are looking for a revolutionary
repertoire, but we are afraid to stage many revolutionary
tional things in which the spirit of agitation and
proclamations killed all artistry
works. People's tragedy by Yu. Yuryin
will have both propaganda and artistic
meaning. The author has corrected himself with the taken responsibility
task and unfolded before us a tragic
picture of our history in strict sequence
vigor, bright paintings, p. historical
truth, without silencing the shadow sides of
who took up the trouble near Razin, nor the husband-
strength of conviction of the king's faithful
servants

With bold strokes the author puts his bright
paints, showing that. convinced, unshakable
beat Stenka Razin to death, then cowards
his brother Frolk, then the courageous okol-
nobody's Prince Shakhovsky, then great power
will of the hawthorn Nastasya Yazykova, who
fell in love with the ataman of the Volzheka grassroots freemen
and can’t come to terms with it, it’s disgusting
the head of the search for boyar Odoevsky, then
courageous Cossack woman Praskovya.

In the first act the author gives a picture of how
Razin, returning from a pilgrimage from Solovki and
not finding the truth there, he conceived the “old order”
break the doc, free black people to live
get it" and organizes a sure blow around himself
new group.

No. m

Act 2 presents the besieged Astra-
Han, confusion in the streets and in the minds of the people, and,
finally, Razin's trial.

Act 3 - feast of Razin and his gang in
Yazykov's boyar mansions. Scene written
with great skill, bright, although compressed.

4th act.—Fleeing from pursuit, after
razhesia near Simbirsk, Razin is hiding
from the Cossack Sevrin, but falls into the hands of the king
sky servants. A moment like mother and daughter apart
of their own free will, they hand over Stepan, it’s not developed,’
it feels done. Uncertain Self-
Rennikov

In Act 5 there is the torture of Razin and Frolka.

Throughout the entire tragedy we see
living real people, not those gold leaf ones
heroes who are sometimes created by uncontrollable
fantasy of inexperienced agitators:

There is nothing modern in “The Alarming Language”
nogo; but the viewer, under relentlessly intensifying
the impression of moral strength
Razin, having experienced more than one emotional moment
uplift and artistic pleasure, su-
can apply everything he hears and sees to
our great days.

The willpower of the people's hero-martyr Ste-
Pan Razin will strengthen and inspire many
the cowardly of this day.

We warmly recommend the item for installation in
people's houses. It is written in simple Russian
in his own language, without any tricks or cunning
smart tricks. In Pi,

A. Neverov. "Women." Shyesa in 4 acts.
State Ed. M 230 =. 28 pages. Price 23 rub.

Neverov's play imagines our time,
years of the imperialist war. She's catching-
is not yet fully realized by the village, but
already emerging, the problem of new relationships
relations between a woman and a man, unfolding
there is a struggle between them, and one in
life "everything is allowed" - infecting the rotten
illness of his wife and children, and the other - alone
kaz: “observe yourself strictly,” otherwise you’ll die
They will beat you up and “take out your soul.”

Neverov's women do not put up with their grief -
what fate? They strongly protest
tive of the current situation.

Anna. Well, my mother, they are men
guys. All made for one block. Illness
They don’t know whether you’re healthy or not. Veyaku tra-
woo eat. > -

Natalya. God have mercy on this. Better
go to the grave alive.

Avdotya. He will have mercy on you. There will be tears
fold into a rag,

Praskovya. Ty thought: shh, Sasha is yours
other clay made. Believe him more -
it will hurt us.

Avdotya. Aon in Petrovsky, they say, vi
one woman is not healthy... All and from
home to home.

Anna. They are devils, men. For nae -
one law, another law for them. We can't
they can. But, in my opinion, it’s impossible, so no one
it is impossible. But it’s possible, everyone can do it. It's not annoying
there will be. Otherwise, mow it down. `Invented... Wrote...

Avdotya. Who wrote it? God, or what?

Anna. Well, God... What kind of god is there. Smart people...
for us, fools, and we perform, And we walk.
one rug at a time.
No. 17—19

Praskovya. And what, women, take it and
step through this law. I wish I could
do? What will happen? g

Neverov's women want joy, light, love,
Avdotya complains that `she is fifteen years old
I lived with my husband,” but I didn’t know joy. "Neither
I’ve never experienced it.” “Only with my belly I walk
every year,” she says with bitterness in her voice.

Expresses this even more sharply, more embitteredly
Avdotya: }

“Well, already love. Will do its job and
snores all night. To whom are you with affection,
I want to talk, but he turns around.
Don't worry. Do we have husbands?

And these resurrecting women of the village on-..

They begin to look for love and happiness. And they find
him from the captured Austrians. Blast furnace started
Joseph... “He lives for the fifth month”... He admires,
you will rejoice.

On this basis, Neverov reveals the drama
Filka Krutov, who returned on leave,
who beats to madness, to death
his “unfaithful” wife Katerina, and kills
father, who, as it was revealed, “recaptured”
his wife.

Here is the figure of the rebellious Domna, the most ardent
protectors of women, and a male court with its
"male" view of a woman.

The play is written vividly, although the theme is not
developed, or developed crudely, unaccountably
It's pouring. Av!or did not think through his work to the end
bots, and it turned out to have two centers: drama
Filka Krutova and the struggle of Domna and the women.

We. Let's not dwell on the idea itself
plays. It is not new and everyone understands it.

You need to stage the play with my big one,
so as not to get negative results -
Comrade, do not cause admiration for the notorious
"I love freedombwi> bordering on brutal
Internetinct. t.

V. P-y.

Artistic word. Temporary _Nar.
Com. Enlightenment Eniga 1. LM. 64 pages: 150 rub.

_ After reading “Vremennik” Nar. Com. Enlightenment, we
We thought for a long time about how to get out of this predicament.
provisions to write a review about him. burst out
anger, sorry for the nerves; seriously analyze the
held - you will incur the wrath of the reader. But we
remembered Belinsky, who in 1886
wrote a report to the publisher of the Telescope about the Russian
literature under the title “Nothing about nothing”;
and he helped us out. :

Belinsky wrote: “you obliged me to do
an easy and short overview of the progress of our literature
tours; brought me into extreme difficulty
tion. Don't you know that "nothing is new"
but the moon"?.. "The better for you, the less-
“No work for you,” you say. No, you're wrong:
This not only doesn’t make me feel better, but it makes me feel better.
is a truly Herculean feat: I must
wives write an article, and from what I will write to you
her, what I will tell you about in it. Oh neither-
than...So we need to make something out of nothing.”...

We are, of course, very modest to dream
write “something from nothing,” but, con-
while thoughtfully leafing through the “Magazine
veyachina", we accidentally attacked "Several
‘words about the Contemporary’; running through the line
line, we had a desire to use
indulge in them. Nervous - they express well
our mood and opinion, on the other hand, for a long time

Proletarian culture. No. 17-19.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 298

They are completely forgotten by many, and to most
probably unknown. Keeping’ flowing;. we
Let's allow ourselves to insert modern
names. AY

“It has been known for a long time; that famous
our poet Valery Yakovlevich. Bryusov,
Merilei to publish a magazine; finally the first
the book of this magazine has already been published, many
they even read it, but despite that, here, in
Moscow, this magazine is true news, new
day, life-giving news; in this email,
what we want to say about him will be real
great news. The fact is that here, in Moscow,
it is very difficult to get "Vremennik" for what
no matter the days, nodespite many
demands and impatience of the public."

“Vremennik is an important and interesting phenomenon.
tortured, how many famous names are his
editor, so much from the hopes placed
and him with one part of the public, and fear,
deafened by the other part of the public”...

“We admit, we did not think that “Vremya-
nickname" could be a great success, i.e. disposition-
significant influence on the public... In our opinion
I think a magazine should be something alive
and active; could it be special?
liveliness in the magazine.... .

“We feel that others with a smile are pleased
will say: “let’s see how his departments are doing here.”
Ali,” and others with a smile of incredulity
contempt: “let’s see how they squabble here.” But
we are very happy to disappoint the expectations of both
gih and prove by fact that not all predictions
come true, and what is shown in our magazine
I form opinions not about persons, but about works.”

The editors make it their main task
artistry, but the artistry of “all
directions:; and this is what the magazine does without any
whom directions. Every fellow writes on
your sample. Sri such conditions are difficult,

Of course, demand that the magazine be “moral.”

influence on the reader."
At the head of everyone is the removed foreigner.

Nice K. Balmont, who proudly declared

that here, in Russia, he cannot create.
Bloody reality created by sick
wikis, fetters his muse and does not give her his
to quickly be carried away to bright lands. Now he's like
prophet of the days to come, speaks e “Pre-delivery
prophecy" and proudly sings "Songs of the Worker
hammer" But who will believe him? Worker?
Never! An intellectual - his doubt will take over
for the heart too. Wasn't it the first and
last song before leaving. .

V. Bryusov speaks next. His poems
are known by us. His “Invective” is made smoothly,
smoothly, with an upswing, but in the way it was all supposed to be
written in his book “The Science of Verse”,
a review of which is included in our
from previous books.

A modern magazine, especially a purely lit-
rature, it is impossible, of course, to be without prole-
Tarek poets.

And so, M. Gerasimov in hism "October",
‹rakes the sky from the sky with a lunar shovel
Order>, and “the dipper of the bear draws happiness
Free Labor."

And V. Aleksandrovsky, having fallen out of love with the “quiet show”
a swath of green foliage and grass”, gathers
“Leech into the dregs of Moscow.” Why in the dregs
and the leech the author is mysteriously silent about.

t
o

With Olympian sacred calm you-
V. Ivanov steps with his “Winter Dreams”
tami." They are interesting both in concept and in execution.
full, they are charming in their simplicity,
but their face is “widowhood with pursed lips,” eka-
We are speaking in the words of the author himself.

That is why Mayakov is inimitable and magnificent -
skiy. There is something for some people to relax over -
left. He's big and funny. But. that's why they
costs Soviet Russia dearly, no matter what,
and sometimes a letter, then 27 rubles according to the tariff.

Here are the characteristic and most expensive lines:

Now
`Peace

in the sky
and after
from the sky
I—
I—

- also here
of course
then
But even then
everything to him
and they with
here
so that
All
This

However, is it worthwhile to value our paper
kami, which by the way will be canceled soon
time and when

15,000,000 is the name of the master of this poem,

—

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 17—19

The story by A. Shukhin is boring and old on the topic
"Venice". Interesting from an everyday point of view
story by B. Pilnyak “At the Doors”. But he
sick, intellectual; like new
in setting, but old, old in its own way
topic, with drunkenness, cynicism, with “bloodthirsty
beast" rushing at a woman who
gently answers: “Well, why get it dirty with your hands.”
Let’s go to bed instead.” It's not blowing like Artsy-
Bashev, or Sologub.

There is an interesting article in the magazine by A. Luna-
Charsky's "Literature and Revolution", but she
very schematic, on a grand scale, but without execution
opinions. +

“Philosophical” thoughts of P. Kuzko-Muzin from
give the most genuine Socialist-Revolutionary worldview
contemplation. These people are sometimes illiterate and
It’s strange how they even got into print.

B, Bryusov is trying to talk about the proletariat
poetry and proletarian culture, but hopelessly
but boring. The main idea of his article is this:
“The new culture has always been a synthesis of new
away with the old, with the basicsmi that
culture, which it replaces."
Every conscious proletarian understands
that this idea cannot be proven not only by three
pages, but also in the whole book. And evil tongues
They also claim that V. Bryusov is a communist,

In conclusion, boring, boring library
graph filled out by V. Bryusov and I. Ake-
new about Pushkin, Verhaeren, etc. °

In a word, one unnecessary and boring jour-
there was more cash.

P. Rudonop,

ro ue EVA ZN
„PROLETARIAN CULTURE-<.

Organ of the Central Committee of the All-Russian Proletkult Council.

From the editor.—Under the banner of Proletkult. V. Polyansky.—“Proletkult”—
No. 1. 1918 July. organ span. amateur performances. V. Kerzhentsev.—Proletariat and creativity.
F. Kalinin.—What is proletarian poetry? A. Bogdanov.—On the repertoire of the workers' theater. V. Bogu-
Eievsky.—Towards the convocation of the All-Russian Federation. conference k.-pr. slave. org. Organ. Bureau.—Chronicle of Proletkult. St
Erivtsov.—Bibliography: “Red Light,” No., Kh.—“Flame.” "Creation". A. O.—“The Future.” P. L.

No. 2. July Nationalism and socialism. V. Polyaneky.—Our criticism. Art. 1st. A. Bogdanov.—
— —— ——— Workers' Club. F. Kalinin.—The ideal of education. A. Bogdanov.—Towards the convocation of the All-Russian Federation.
conf. prol. k.-pr. organizations. Abstracts of reports: Revolution (and cultural tasks of the proletariat.
V. Polyansky.—Science and the working class. A. Bogdanov.—Proletariat and art. A. Lunachareky.—
Ideals of socialist education. N. Ulyanova (N. Krupskaya).— Iron Messiah. V. Ki-
Rillov.—Nokhorony. A. Pomorsky.—Miracles of work. A. Gastev.—Chronicle of “Proletkult”: Second.
conf. Petrogr. "Proletkult". 1.".L.—In the province. St. Yerivtsov.—Bibliography: Literature. Al.
manah. V.P.—A. Timiryazev. Red Banner. A.O.—Izvestia Moskov. Flight. Univ. S.D.

No. 3 August Motives of working poetry, V. Polyansky.—Our criticism. Art. 2nd. A. Bogdamov.—
————-—— Circle work. Art. EKrivtsov.—Class theater. K. Malinin.—To the convocation
All-Russian conf. extended k.-pr. organizations. Abstracts of reports: Proletarian Club. From. Krivtsov.—Norma
representation and work plan of the conference. Organ. Bureau.—Chronicle "Prospect"oletkult": In the provinces.
Art. Krivtsov.—Bibliography: A. Bogdanov. “Red Star” and “Engineer Manny”. S.D.J.
Tierso. Celebrations and songs of the French Revolution. 7, R.—Two reviews. 4. 0.—From the editor.

No. 4. September Tov. N. Lenin. V. Polyanskii.—Methods of labor and methods of knowledge. A. Bogdanov

:. = The path of proletarian criticism and the poetry of A. Gastev. F. Kalinin.—Trud Vos
mitigating and productive work in the new school. V. Polyansky. What should a worker be?
club N. Krupskaya. All-Russian Union of Working Writers. V. Ignatov.—Towards the convocation of the All-Russian Federation.
conf. prol. k.-pr. organizations. Abstracts of reports: Workers' cooperation and proletarian culture
construction. N. Vavilevsky.—Spring plant. Song about iron. Poetry. M. Gerasimov.—Chronicle
Proletkult": Moscow "Proletkult". Report. In the province. Art. Krivtsov.—Bibliography:
The Coming". P. L. -—- "Flame". A. O. - "Literary Application", No. 1. V, G. - "Creativity". A. O.—V
Kirillov. Poems. 1. „1.—V. Fritsche. Proletarian position. V. G.

No. 5 November The year of the proletarian dictatorship. V. Polyansky.—Ideology of production. F. Kali-
—— ———— rank. - Proletarsky. University, A. Bogdanov. — Organization of literary
creativity. V. Kerzhentsev.—First' All-Russian conference. span. cult.-enlightenment organizations,
V. Kunavin.—Resolutions of the conference. - Chronicle" "Proletkult": In the provinces. Art. Yorivtsov.—
Bibliography: “Gorn”. V. Polyaneky.— “In the Storm and the Flame.” V. P-ii.— “Wedding vestments”
A.O.—“From the kindergarten diary.” V. Khersonskaya.— “The Crucible.” V.G.— “The Coming Culture.” 11../..

a International revolution and proletarian culture. V. Kerzhentsev. —
No. 6. 1919 February. About ideology. F. Kalinin. - Next questions. V. Polyansky. —
Working methods of Proletkult. V. Kerzhentsev. — Theory and practice. 7. Sedelnikov. — Plan
organization "Proletkult". - Suburbs. Poem. M. Rubinipayne. — Proletkult Chronicle:

In the province. Art. Krivtsov. — Proletarian cult.-enlightenment. organizations. — Bibliography: “Prole-
Tara collection." V. Polyansky. - “Messenger of Life”. B

"Firewing Plant"". A. O. - S. Malashkin. “Muscles", A. O. - S. Yesenin. Transfiguration. V. G. -

P. Oreshin. "Red Rus'". V. G. - S. Sredinsky. “Fundamentals of newspaper business.” M. M. - “Zarevo”
Factories." V. Polyaneky. - “The World and Man”. P.L.

E z Proletkult and Soviet cultural work. A. Lunacharsky. - Our for-
No. 7-8. April May. dachas_and paths. V. Rey - Essays on organizational science. A. Bogoa-
new.—On the professionalism of workers in art. F. Kalinin.—About professionalism. V. Pletnev -
Collective creativity in the theater. V. Kerzhentsev.—About futurism. F. Kalinin. — Soviet poetry
provinces. V. Polyaneky. - “To the priests of art.” Poem. V. Kirillov. - Aviators. Discussion
A. Shlyapnikov. — Model charter of the Proletkult club. Vseros. Sov. Proletkult. — Chro-
nickname "Proletkult": In the provinces.—Instructor courses. Art. Yerivtsov.— Conferences. - Father-
you.—Bibliography: A. Sidorov. "Revolution and Art". 0. D.— K. Zalevsky.— “Art
and the proletariat." Art. Krivtsov.— Groshik. Stories. I. Rudokop.—V. Ignatov. "Wedding Party".
P. Miner.—“Beeps.” V. G. - “Our horn”. V.P—y. - “Red Morning”. A. 0.

h = Proletarian culture and its criticism. F. Kalinin.—Essays on organizational
No. 9-10. June-July. no science. Art. 2nd. A. Bozdinov, —_Ch. Darwin and K. me RE. Tamirya-
Zev.—Knowledge in the light of history. V. Polyaneky.—The growth of Proletkult. O. Rainin.—About trends
proletarian culture. A. Gastev.—On the trends of proletarian culture (response to Gastev). 4. Boz-

——About provincial proletarian universities. 4. Bogdanov.—Towards the closure of the proletarian
university. — Proletkult Chronicle: In the provinces. 0. Rainin.—Reports. — Bibliography:
M. Gerasimov. “Spring Plant” and “Flowers Under Fire”. P.L.-V. Alexandrovsky. "Worker"
village" and "North". V. P-ii—A. Pomeranian. "Flowers of Rebellion". V. P—shchy. - "Proletkult".
A. O—Proletkult." P. Rudokop—"Labor and Creativity." I. Rudokop.

And

. Kunavin. - “The Coming Culture”. P..L.— °
Oh Where are we going. V. Polyansky. — The beginning of proletarian aesthetics. 4. Moon-
No. 1-12. December. Charsky.—Essays on organizationalno science. Article 3. A. Boba NV.
tariffization of science. M. Smith.—On the methods of work in Proletkults. F. Kalinin.—Study of labor
new processes. M. Omit. - Cemetery of steam locomotives. Poem. No. No. 32 readings. M.F. - Chronicle
“Proletkult”: In Proletkult. S.S.—Proletkult—Red Army. E. O.—Tambovsky's work
Proletkult' in. Red Army: V.K:—In the ‘provinces: Bibliography: Original. "Under the Red"
Banner*. V. Polyansky.—K. Loptin. "Dawn". V. 1st.—G. Nechaev. "Evening songs. V. P-4th. —

"Wavings". A. O.—V. Popov. Stories. A. 0.—N. Tikhomirov. "Red Bridge". A. O.—V. Kunov. ^

“The emergence of religion and faith in God.” P.L.—G. Gorter. "Historical materialism". P. L/.—
A. Bogdanov. i`I. Stepanov. Course of 'political economy. T. 8. V. 4. PL. U

and tt 'F. AND; Kalinin.—P.K. Bessalko. — From’ memories with
No. 13-14. 1920 January March. deceased 'fighters for proletarian culture... A. Luna-
Charsky.—Labor Army, V. Polyansky. Essays on organizational science. Art. 4th: A; Bogda-
new—Two poetry. V. Nolyan cue.—Simplicity or sophistication. A. Bogdanov.—Paths of the proletariat
in fine arts. B. Arvatov.—Struggle for the socialist theater. 1; Nerzhentsev.—True-
a good school in the minds of the average worker. F. Kalinin.-Towards the convocation of the 2nd All-Russian. Conf. Pro-
Letkultov.-Chronicle of “Proletkult”: Abroad, Congresses. In the province. Bibliography: I. Sa:
dofiev. “Dynamo-verses”.. V. Pyulyansny.—P. Bessalko “Diamonds of the East”. V. 11th. Collection of Ry-
Binsky. Proletkult. V. 11th.—V. Fritsche. “Proletarian ‘poetry’.” V. G.—V. Lviv-Ragochev-
skiy. “Poetry of the new Russia”... Miner.—E. Vandervelde. Socialism and art." 11. "Lebesev.-
P. Bessalko and F. Kalinin. “Problems of proletarian culture.” —St. Erivtsov.—Pelshe. Manners
and the art of the French Revolution." St. Erivtsov.—Artistic Life." Fine
art*. I. Rudokov.—V. Brussw. "The Science of Silence." O. Brik, NOT

g s Memory. K. A. Timiryazeva. — About the international Proletkult.—
No. 15-16. April July. Essays on organizational science. Art. 5th: A. Bogdanov.-—To the question

about volume and character. works of Proletkult. V. Kunavin—Independence of ‘or’ in the shackles of bur-
zhuaz culture. In... Molyaneky.—Methods of proletarian creativity. A.’ Bogdanov.—England,
as a field of proletarian culture. T. Iaveli.—Independent education of the workers of England.
V. Man-Lane.—Alexey Gmyrev (worker poet). V. Fritsche.—To the convocation! 2nd Vkherossiyskaya. Con-
ferences of Proletkult.—Chronicle of “Proletkult”: Abroad. Congresses, In the provinces. -Bible-
Photography: F. Mering. K. Marx. "The Story of His Life". Woof. "Lededev.. In, Fritsche., "Newest" euro-
Pei literature. Vol. [th. VB. G. - Stelnoy “Proletary”. In Polyansky—V. Belotserkovsky

"Laughter through tears." V. P-ii.—E. Tarasov, “Poems”... V. I-ni.-—-Ya.. Berdnikov, “Flowers:

hearts." V. P-ii—N. Rybatskaya. “On the bright path.” V. 1Eii.—N. Stay away. "Poems".
A. Kuznetsov. "Poems". V. 11th.—V. Knyazev. “The first quiver of poems.” 11... Rudona.—“Kuz-
face." Journal of proletarian writers under Lio Nar. Kom, Prosv. A. Bogdanov. ana

“V. State:
PICHNAYA LIBRARY
in Lennigrad

ana Publisher -—= N Editor -?”
State Publishing House. : `” Reyantsionnaya Nollegiya.

1st Model Printing House M. 6..N. Kh..Nyafnitskaya, 71.

art eee ыь РВ 39 2 fe aa

p ieirh

to-for"

2.

that tesyazhek

EE "t CHICHAEDSEEEE
Rana 50 rubles. —
ry on the book 'price' by anyone
› not nano be. "raised:

[-—— - ==

Came out E: stamp:

In memory of F.I. "Kalinin. and Ey A. and A, E
A. Lunacharsky, V.. Polyansky and F. Kalinin. “Pg, “Price 100 rubles.”

A. Bogdanov: Ben proletarian. us: v. development _ worker
class. M. Chen 20 rub. }

`Proletarian poetry.. Collection of articles by A. "Lupacharsiok, Mr. Bogdanova,
V./ Polyansky. Price: .30 rub. : .

General course lecture programs. for judges Proletkut
Portraits. F. I. Kalinin, V. Bessalko, Price 5 rubles. |

me `"Proletarian Culture" found and. For sale. ‘through
Behold its branches. _ - in

Yo
{

R.V. Ts. Moscow: ^^ i m TI met N: a. p 25,000 copies printed.