Workers of all countries, unite?

Proletarian Culture.

TWO-WEEK MAGAZINE.

Organ Center. Committee of the All-Russian Propetkupt Council,
Publication of the State Publishing House,
Editorial office and office address: Moscow, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 26-30,
Reception with the editorial secretary daily from 11 to | hours of the day,

L No. 4. September. 1918

CONTENTS: Comrade. N. Lenin, -V, Tolyansky, Methods of labor and methods of knowledge, - r
d. Path and poetry of A. Gastev, -F, Kalinin, Truk

And hardworking in the new school, - V. / Tollsky. What should
wives be a workers' club. —N. Krunskaya. All-Russian Union of Working Writers. —
V. Iznatov. To the convocation of the All-Russian conf. prol. k.-pr. org Abstracts;
|

Workers' cooperation and proletarian cultural construction, -//, Vasilevsky. For-

spring waters. Song about iron, Poems.—M. Gerasimov. Proletkult Chronicle: Mo-

Skovsky “Proletkult”.—Report. In the province - St. Krivtsov, Bibliography: “Dirt”

“fucking” - 1. L. “Flame”. - A, O. “Literary.” Appendix No. 1, - V, G. “Creative

stvo", -A. O, V, Kirillov. E L.V. Fritsche, Proyetarskaya poetry"
enya,—V, G,

Comrade N. Lenin.
(V.I. Ulyanov).

On the evening of August 30, when at the end of the rally he was leaving the Mi-
Helson, the criminal hand of a woman tried to kill him to the delight of the entire Russian-
Russian counter-revolution and international imperialists.

While he is unarmed, without any precaution, with the characteristic
with the calmness and confidence he knew, he spoke of the imminent inevitable catastrophe
capitalist world of Western Europe, she was preparing to strike from around the corner
‘him a fatal stab in the back to deprive the international revolutionary
the proletariat of the man whom history has nominated to the post of first leader [os-
Siysk socialist revolution.

K. Marx died, and F. Engels said: “now humanity has stood on its head
below." And if the wounded man's situation turned out to be hopeless, no one would smore
would like to name a comrade who would rightfully occupy his responsible post,
The Russian revolution would have become a cut lower.

Merits of Comrade N. Lenin before the Russian revolutionare innumerable to her. How
an experienced captain, with unshakable firmness, iron will, with complete o0-
knowing his every word and action, he led the red ship of our revolutionary
tions to socialism. Counter-revolutionary storms have repeatedly tried to overturn and
sink our ship in the raging passions of the class struggle, but he always
held the steering wheel firmly in his hands, without flinching even once during the entire storm, so menacing
in recent days, when the entire bourgeois world was intensively preparing for the struggle
with the growing international revolution.

In the October days, when the Bolsheviks took power into their own hands, they did not know
How long would it be possible to hold her, and were nervous, he was alone, calm as always, only
with greater efficiency, gathered the first people's commissars, discussed with
They have a further plan of action, ready to meet the enemy.
2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 4

When some, doubting their abilities, were inclined to compromise with
petty-bourgeois Socialist Revolutionary and Menshevik part of the All-Russian Executive
body of the Committee, he, like a rock, remained adamant. Ready to break with
his close friends, with whom his long revolutionary
work, he resolutely rejected all attempts at compromise. And he knew
what I wanted.

When some, carried away by enthusiasm, and others by revolutionary phrases and
gesture, intended to wage a hopeless revolutionary war with Germany,
putting the fate of the entire revolution at stake, he used all his political

and journalistic talent to keep the proletariat from this madness’

step. With great pain in my heart, but with full consciousness of inevitability and morality,
no responsibility, he concluded a “shameful and obscene” peace in Brussels, as
all the traitors to the people and the revolution shouted frantically. Concluded and saved the revolution
lucia.

When alone, seeing our devastation and some of our insufficiency
to great organizational and state work, they lost heart, he was in all
in his speeches and articles he constantly repeated: “The people will be able to arrange their own destiny;
through a series of mistakes and, perhaps, crueltests he will stand on the right
way, as long as political power remains in his hands.” And he was right again.
We not only destroyed the old state machine, but managed to cover
country through our network of institutions. They are imperfect. That's true. But they already
begin to work, and time will quickly correct all the shortcomings and give people power
the necessary experience.

When one part of the proletariat fought with selfless enthusiasm against the
gangs of the counter-revolution, and the other, overwhelmed by the petty-bourgeois elements
anarchy, a hereditary disease of the old world, went into satisfaction
selfish self-interest, he declared loudly and decisively that
if labor productivity falls, if we don’t do our best
one, our efforts to somehow improve the national economy,
collapse awaits us, the yoke of imperialism and, perhaps, even monarchy awaits us. He
reminded that with new rights, new responsibilities fall on the proletariat.

When Soviet power became so strong in our country that inside
there were not sufficient counter-revolutionary forces to produce state
gift coup, enemies of the revolution, starting with the Socialist Revolutionaries and Mensheviks and
ending with obvious monarchists, openly resorted to the help of the Anglo-French,
Czech-Slovak and Japanese-American gangs. The situation seemed hopeless.
At first I had to think not so much about the new state structure,
TV, so much about self-defense. It seemed that one month would pass, then another, and then...
Whipped into an iron ring, Soviet power will inevitably have to fall under
the onslaught of a regular, trained army of the embittered and deceived. soldier.
He, full of composure, declared: “Atony has gripped the West, the war will not end.”
an ordinary peace concluded by diplomats of the warring countries, and the Euro-
Pei civil war, peace will be concluded by the revolutionary people themselves.
We will win." And this was not a revolutionary phrase to maintain the mood.
The power of conviction was great in him. It was passed on to others; she rallied
us in cruel bfighting our enemies.

Being the most extreme in determining the nature of our revolution and the stand-
tasks before it, he never fell into any revolutionary phrase or gesture,
neither into self-deception, nor into disappointment and hopelessness. He always politicizes his
which line was strictly determined by the balance of forces, first with our forces
counter-revolution, and then international, when she, fearing for her existence,
movement, moved forward in Soviet power. He managed to say this openly in a letter
to the American workers, what if necessary in the interests of defending the revolution
conclude an alliance with the Germans, then he will do that too. Maximalist in his aspirations
niyam, he was always a realist, and not a dreamer-dreamer in his daily work,
why some, through a misunderstanding, began to consider him even the right wing
in the party. He was the most businesslike man of our revolution.
L: 4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 3'

Great merits of comrade. Lenin and before the International. When 'broke out'
world war, he was the first to raise a protest against the international
social democracy, social patriotism and chauvinism. V. Zimmerwalde and Kin-
he did not make a single hesitation towards any agreement with those
who put forward the slogan of national unity, he pursued his line steadily
until his last performance.

Our enemies, directing their vile and villainous shot at Comrade. Lenin,
knew that they were striking the revolution in the very heart, that they were removing them from office
a man whose iron will and tenacity in the fight broke all the onslaughts
and the machinations of the enemy. .

Their criminal plan failed. Tov, Lenin is alive; and we already know that
in the near future he will again return to his great duties as leader with
socialist revolution to the fear of the bourgeois world. He is alive, and let our
The enemies know that we will be merciless in the fight against them.

Full of great indignation against the mercenaries of the counter-revolution, together with
by the proletariat of the whole world we say:

!

“Long live Comrade Lenin!”
“Long live the international socialist revolution!”

‘ Valeryan Polyansky.

Methods of labor and methods of knowledge.

One of the main tasks of our new culture is to restore along the entire line
the connection between labor and science, a connection broken by centuries of previous development

The solution to the problem lies in a new understanding of the sciences, in a new point of view of science.
her:

science is an organized collective labor experience, and an instrument of organization

collective work.

This idea must be consistently carried out throughout the entire study, in all presentations.
scientific research, transforming both as required. Then the kingdom. science
will be won for the proletariat.

` The soul of science, the basis of its creativity, is its methods, i.e. the ways in which she
produces the truth.

In the light of our new point of view, we will now consider where the first
Initially these methods occurred, what forces determine their further
development.

G.

All methods of cognition are grouped into two series: inductive and deductive.
ny, or a series of “guidance” and a series of “removal”. They complement each other as they walk
in opposite directions. Induction organizes experience, moving from
nogo 1: general, and thus obtaining ever broader “generalizations”: understanding
tia, ideas, “laws”. Deduction takes these generalizations and uses them as a weapon.
ideas for further organization of experience, applying them to more specific facts and
groupings of facts, thereby obtaining different “conclusions”, among them—
"foresight". All cognitive work takes place in these forms. Thought-
Everyday science applies them unconsciously, scientific - consciously and plannedly.
measuredly.

This consciousness and planning increased with every step of development
science. But still the old science was not able to explore its methods so much

\ to find out their actual beginning; and it is the key to their objectivity,
L

*
4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 4

lifelike meaning. All this is beyond the sight of old science, because all this
lies in the sphere of collective labor from which her thinking has become detached.

I.

Through induction, cognitive generalization is achieved. It is preceded by
in the development of life, both individual andcollective, generalization of practice
logical

The infant does not engage in induction; he is not yet a being of thought.
sche. But he is already an active being, he reacts one way or another, actively
responds to events. Touch his hand with something very cold—he
will pull it away. If you replace a cold object with a hot one, it will also pull back the handle.
The point of the needle will cause the same movement. This is the most common “reflex”
i.e. involuntary, spontaneous action of an equal organism. It is one
natural response to various irritations. But such an answer is vitally expedient.
equal. Why? Because despite all the differences in these irritations, they have
something in common: all of them can have a harmful, destructive effect on the body.
The child's movement is a reaction to this. precisely their common property. Other words
you, it is practically generalized in a reflex.

The vast majority of human actions are reflexive, instinctive
tive, automatic, habitual - provide such practical 0bob-
scheniya. 'A man walks along a path, it is interrupted by a hole, a large stone, a fallen trunk
of our tree, a puddle: all these different things are only a few thousand years ago
ago was able to generalize cognitively in the concept of “obstacles”; but, of course, for a long time
before that, clearly for any observer, he generalized practically, in the act of trans-
jumping, in the same movement, related to the common human characteristic -
the meaning of all these so different objects.

This is a vital necessity. Impacts and resistance of the environment,
that every organism encounters are themselves infinitely diverse
and are never exactly repeated. If the body needed the same time -
react differently to them, then he could never “learn” anything, in
in the sense that he would not have the opportunity to develop any valid
adaptations: when and in what way appropriate reactions are developed,
if each one is only good for once? It is in their generalizing character
is the main saving of the forces of an active being.

And.

Still veryit is clear that practical generalization in these spontaneous forms
is still very far from cognitive. Where does the intermediate stage lie?

The stronger the irritation that acts on the child’s hand, the more energetic
more efficient is the withdrawal reflex. At the same time, it is easy to notice that other
gie. muscles of the body, especially the face, and breathing becomes more frequent and intensified.
This is the spread in the nerve centers of the resulting excitation from one movement
negative areas to others, the so-called “irradiation” of it; she is inevitable
the result of the unity of the organism, the connection of its parts; in essence he accepts everything
participation in any reaction, only on the part of the majority of organs participation is so
weakly, unnoticeably.

If the irritation is very strong, then the reflex is complicated by a cry: irra-
diation produces a sharp contraction of the thoraco-abdominal obstruction, vocal cords,
muscles of the cavities of the pharynx and mouth and muscles of the face And at the same time perform on stage
is a new moment of enormous importance.

The mother hears the child's cry and comes to his aid: she found out that
happened because screaming is an expression of pain. If the child were alone
in the world, his cry would only be an unnecessary and harmful waste of energy; but
in the embryonic social system “mother-child”, and this part of the reflex transforms
turns into a very useful device. The cry of pain is “understandable” both to the mother and even
No. 4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 5

to every other person, because in all of them it is equally a part
reflex caused by strong and harmful irritation.

A reflex is a practical generalization. Here it is, as we see, not only
"exists, but is also expressed and understood. Expressed and understood practical generalization
Can’t learning be considered as cognitive? Not yet; it's not
“corresponds to the generally recognized type of such generalizations. But it is their pro-
way. |

TU.

In the fight against nature, man adapts to its conditions not only by
“<quiet’ reflexes, but also through consciously expedient efforts,
actively changing these conditions; in other words,he is a working creature.

Labor efforts are distinguished by two features: sociality and plasticity.
ness. In work, a person is connected with other people, is considered a member of a team.
giva; only in a collective does he have sufficient power to change the conditions
Via external environment; taken separately, he would be powerless against the elements, and if
could even live, then only passively adapting to them, like any animal
new, but could not develop to labor consciousness. And she is inextricably linked
with the variability of the efforts themselves, with their “plasticity”: as soon as the labor is several
changed the conditions, so further efforts must “take into account” this change
‘opinion, for example, if a tree has already been cut down so much that it can fall, it is necessary
not to chop further, but to push it in the proper direction, etc. node,

Labor gives rise to a new stage in the development of generalization.

The labor act, like the reflex from which it originated, is accompanied by
thanks to the same irradiation, with a corresponding sound, labor interjections.
“Such, for example, is the sound “uhh” that comes out when lifting a weight, “ga” when hitting
an ax for splitting logs, “gop-la” - for sailors when pulling a rope,
“go-goy” - they have it when rotating the spokes of the capstan, “fff” - from the person inflating
fire for a fire, etc. These sounds are often and practically associated with the necessary
adaptation of the chest organs to the movement of the waist and limbs. U
“primitive, spontaneous, spontaneous man, such sounds burst out,
of course, much easier than for our modern worker. }

Labor interjections are the primary roots of human speech. Each
of these represents the natural, for all members. team understandable *description
the meaning of the labor act to which it relates. Here is the solution to what is happening
‘the birth of language, given by the brilliant Noiret, a Marxist of comparative philosophy
‹logy, who had no concept of Marxism. The word-concept emerged from labor,
arose from production.

The plasticity of labor determined the plasticity of the word, and thereby the development
speech starting from a few primary rootsand so immeasurable her wealth,
which now characterizes the languages of civilized peoples.

Since a primitive word denotes an action, then a number of such words can
“Keep the technical rule. For example, the technique of making a fire, an adult member
tribal primitive community could inform the child through a chain of labor inter-
metiya, expressing our concepts; chop (of course, wood), break, collect
(dry branches, brushwood), carry, fold, rub (a way to make fire), fan
vat. The method of teaching, due to the lack of development of the language, is imperfect, using the nose
indications of suitable objects, you must have achieved your goal.

The labor interjection was torn out of a person not only in connection with the pre-
knowledge about one’s own action or the same action of another person. If it happened to him
to see a spontaneous action of natural forces similar in nature or results,
this naturally gave rise to a vivid motor idea in the savage, and with it—
the same statement. For example, when he watched a stone falling from a mountain
‘cuts off a tree in its path with a sharp edge, this involuntarily generated
it has a sound that expresses the act of cutting down. And thereby the primary word becomes
was already a designation not only of human effort, but also of a natural phenomenon.
This made description possible in general.
6 PROLEGARIAN CULTURE. No. 4

There is no need now to trace the further development of the language, from non-
certain meaning of words to a certain one, from labor interjections to dis-
division of parts of speech. The following is important for us. A word-concept is a narrow cognition
ative generalization; technical rule and description of events - educational
generalizations are more complex, formed from primary, elementary generalizations
nii-words.

This is the beginning of induction. Its first and main form is recognized as a general
general description." The verbal designation itself represents the “description”
denoted by "mog" - in this general sense of the term; and the description, of course, I generalize -
general: it covers actions in its symbolism, or. events or thingsaz-
personal in particulars, but having some general content that
and allows us to connect them as homogeneous complexes in the flow of living experience.

U.

From lower, first-order generalizations come higher, second-order, third-order generalizations.
Thiago order etc. etc., both in the chain of words-concepts and in the chain of technical laws:
pitchforks, and descriptions of facts; The method is still the same. In this series of lower cognitive
complexes there is something common and vitally important, in any
sense, content; people’s attitude towards this content is “expressed” in
the same verbal reaction.

The savage “knows.” all members of their community, i.e. to each of them is
in a certain practical sense; it is expressed for the savage in the individual
dual name. This name itself symbolizes a complex and broad generalization.
tion, for each person in the experience of another appears in no way 94.
and a whole chain of quite diverse experiences.

But like his relatives, the savage has some common practical
skoe attitude. It is revealed especially sharply when the community meets
communicates with people of an alien organization, for example, another similar community. Then
he clings to his own, seeks their support, and he himself supports them, and strangers, on the other hand,
Tiv, beware, avoid, and, if possible, attack them. Both are related
The sewing covers two rows. quite complex practical reactions that have
great vital importance. These two series are generalized into the ‘concepts of higher
order - “eva” and “stranger”.

Developing more peaceful relationships and connections between communities, tribes,
leads to the formation of a concept of an even higher order - “man” - etc.

This is the way of induction. In everyday and scientific thinking, he is essentially
is the same: scientific thinking, as is known, differs only in greater organic
calledness-broader and more fully embraces the collective experience of people, more strictly and
connects it more methodically, systematically eliminating everything contradictory in it. A

the methods of scientific thinking are the same, because it was developed from the everyday -
And now we have traced the roots of the basic andfrom these methods in this work, where
lies the beginning of all culture.

u' ME

A generalization, a generalizing description, is the simplest type of induction. More complex
its highest and highest form is represented by the statistical method, the quantitative method
nogo ‘accounting and accounting of facts.

There are known savages for whom arithmetic operations, even within the limits
The numbers of fingers and toes present insurmountable difficulties. U
primitive people have to assume even less development. But labor is
generally and always has, of course, its quantitative side, and its meaning is
organization is as great in the early stages as in the later ones.

Elements of production—its materials, tools, labor. Their correspondence
dimensional distribution, which means their “commensuration” is the main organizational
labor problem, Currently it is solved in every large enterprise
scientifically and statistically, and the current ones are based on the same method
No. 4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. g

attempts to solve this on a broader, national scale. Initially
but it was decided purely practically.

So, for example, even the most primitive agriculture required” although approximately
accurate accounting of the seeds needed for sowing in a certain area, and
the same consideration of actual yield, which determines the expansion or contraction
development of plots cultivated by the community. These primitive statistics are
it was necessary to take into account the availability of labor force, considering, moreover,
‹ the quantitative difference in the strength of an adult man, a woman and a teenager.
As production became more complex, it was necessary to calculate the required dimensions.
pastures for available livestock or the amount of hay reserves for them for the winter; and the number
for example, to collect sheep according to both the need for meat for food and the need
in wool for making fabrics, based on the average weight of animals of different
age and on the average amount of wool obtained from them, etc. under.

All calculations were made initially, of course, not through real
arithmetic and algebraic operations, and the elementary method thatthen-
ry is vividly and quite accurately expressed by our popular term - “outfits-
"by eye." For example, to balance the number of seeds with the space available
lying on the sowing plot, the head of the community’s work proceeded from the previous work
commercial experience, according to which, let’s say, a handful of grains was enough for such and such
a small area, well fixed in his memory. Bypassing vatem
arable field, he seemed to measure it according to this visual image (“by eye”)
pieces of the same size area, and put aside a handful of seeds for each
from the full bag they took with them to the empty one specially designated for them. Yes
primitive statistics actually realized both the average value and the total amount.

A big and very difficult step towards abstract statistical calculation
there was primitive symbolism of this kind: instead of carrying with you
and lay the seeds on the spot, the organizer, measuring the area by eye, did
signs, in the form, for example, of lines on a stick, and then, already at home, based on these signs,
dyva! burn after burn. This was the beginning of the actual “numerical” or digital
statistics.

To what extent the transition even to such symbolization is difficult is vividly illustrated by
evidenced by J. Lubbock (in the book “The Beginnings of Civilization”)
the story of an African traveler. He witnessed the barter
negotiations between a European merchant and the leader of a native tribe. Bartered
sheep for tobacco: the merchant gave two packs of tobacco and took the sheep in his direction.
He was tired of endlessly repeating these movements, he gave the leader four
packs, and wanted to take two sheep. The leader stopped it, the merchant began to prove
that this is one and the same thing. The native could not understand the essence of the matter, otherwise the reflection on his face
There was a painful tension of thought. Finally inspiration struck him: he
grabbed four packs, brought them to his eyes, and after one pair began to look
on one sheep, through another - on another. So the issue was resolved, and under the influence
European civilization immediately took a significant step along the path of knowledge,
who without itits influence would have required much more time.

Practically carried out in primitive statistics for the same purposes
commensurate and grouping in terms of quantitative differences in relation to
reference to any attribute: livestock by its weight, logs and boards for construction
by size, workers by the size of their ability to work, etc. under. Without this group
feasting, it would be impossible even to take an approximate account of the conditions of communal
production, which was carried out directly, “by eye”,
without which the organization of labor would not achieve the necessary elementary
systematicity.

Thus, all the main points of the statistical method arose
first in organizational and labor practice, in a specific life connection.
Then they were subjected to symbolization, which consists of replacing real
facts and things by signs, verbal or otherwise. In one of the examples we will mark e-
til the embryo of “digital” symbolization; it is not possible to trace its entire development
required by our task. It was she who first gave the statistical method

{
Y

8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 4
generally cognitive, and then, when it achieved greater rigor and accuracy,
then it is actually scientific in nature.

UP.

The highest and most complex form of the inductive method is
abstract-analytical, or a method of simplifying decomposition of facts. However
and it is by no means “invented” by scientists.

The words “abstract” and “analyze” originally meant completely
physical actions: the first, in Latin, meant “to tear off”, “to drag into
side,” the second, in Greek, “to break” some ligaments, fetters, or “un-
knit" them. In general, actions that practically decompose this or that mathematics
rial complex, producing a real separation of its constituent parts.

°In production this is one of the main technical methods.

To build a house you need logs of a certain size, even and smooth.
cues. They are extracted from timber. How is this done? Cut down or cut down
tree - separated from its roots; remove its branches, twigs, fromtake the bark, here-
call and clean off any irregularities in the trunk. It turns out what you need, what you need
the builder can operate in his work. What is the point of the process? From real
of a large, complex “tree” complex are technically distracted by a whole mass of its elements.”
cops, so that what remains is essential from the point of view of the post-
given task. This process could not be more typical.

From the point of view of bread production, the essential content of the ear
are grains, from the point of view of clothing production, essential content
by the plant “flax”—the fibers of its stem, etc. under. In all such cases it is
stands out from the whole by various methods of technical abstraction “insignificant”
ny" parts or elements. This is a material, practical "abstraction"
material “analysis” of objects.

The real labor action, separated from it, is followed by its symbol -
a word-concept that ideologically contains it. So for the real labor distraction
This is followed by his ideological image—a “verbal” and “mental” distraction.
The builder looks at the growing trees and, mentally abstracting their crowns, bark
etc., determines what logs will come out of them. This is "cognitive", but also
not the actual “scientific” application of an abstract analytical method,
because its task is everyday practical, and not scientific, possible use
calling, not research.

With the transition to scientific thinking and setting scientific goals, being
mstoda ‘does not change. The point also comes down to the fact that from a complex complex
highlight the “essential” or “essential” from the point of view of the intended task and that
continue with this and operate. Abstraction is performed just as realistically,
technically, if it is possible, then it is designated as an "experiment", or
scientific experience. b

So, for example, if you need to find out the basic correctness of the fall of bodies,
then they try to experimentally distract themselves from such complicating conditions as
air resistance, random shocks, wind action. For this body, which
those taken for research are placedinto a closed tube, which eliminates
random impacts, and air is pumped out of it, thereby eliminating its resistance
tification. If it is necessary to establish the basic form of free liquids in the pro-
wandering, they try to abstract the force of gravity, which forces them
spread over surfaces or take the form of vessels. For 'this action'
heaviness is destroyed, “paralyzed” by others, equal and opposite:
pressure of another liquid of the same specific gravity as the first, inside which
They place it, choosing, of course, this one; which does not mix with it, or because
running mixing using a thin elastic film; in this case, the liquid, as if from
It is known that it takes the shape of a ball.

Both examples show that the “abstraction” is not perfect,
only approximate: complicating aspects are reduced only to a minimum
size; for example, at least very little air remains in the tube for falling bodies;
No. 4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 9

the specific gravity of two different liquids does not exactly match, no matter how hard you try
0b this, it. under. These remaining complicating moments, if they are very small,
they simply “neglect”, i.e. are already mentally distracted from them.

In most cases of such real, technical abstraction,
the thread fails even approximately; then it is replaced entirely by mental
distraction. This is almost always the abstract method in public
sciences: experiments on people and their relationships are only possible
rarely, and their formulation, given the enormous complexity of the phenomena, is too difficult. -

Adam Smith and David Ricardo studied economic processes, capital
'galism with the help of the basic abstraction of "economic man": they are thought-
‘lently took away from a person all other motives—moral, political, ideological—:
nal, personal-emotional - except for “economic gain” - seemed to cut off
and stripped away the human personality, leaving only the “essential” for them
tasks; and then operated with this simplified complex. — Marx, from-
studying the development of capitalism, takes as a basis"pure capitalist society";
this abstraction is obtained through the mental purification of contemporary Marx
capitalist organization from all the remnants and re-
the remnants of previous economic systems and the germs of future ones. Such simplifications
research allows us to trace the main patterns of the infinitely complex eco-
nomic life.

Abstract analysis is the most subtle, the most perfect - and the most difficult -
nal method of inductive research. However, it happened eventually
from the elementary crude technical techniques with which he is invariably associated
dash row. development.

. UP. .

The essence of deduction lies in the application of the results obtained inductively
tion, i.e. its generalizations. The beginning of both methods completely merges,
it is so general that it is still impossible to distinguish between one and the other,

This beginning is a word-concept, a primary generalization. It denotes a series of one-
native actions or events, or objects that appeared in the past, re-
lived experience, and is attached to actions, events, objects, new in experience,
appearing for the first time. Such a new application, without which words would be
are completely useless, and there is already an elementary deduction.

Let, for example, the primary Aryan root “ku” be associated with the act of digging. If
the antediluvian savage, encountering a hole on the way, involuntarily pronounced “ku”, then
this interjection is nothing more than you609 from generalized previous experience,
applied to new experience, a deductive explanation of a specific fact: adopted
It seems that there were people here who, pursuing some technical goal,
performed a number of specific actions. The explanation may be wrong:
every deduction is hypothetical, i.e. only probable, although this probability is
in other cases it reaches almost complete reliability. But in his own way
In this character, the explanation of the primitive savage does not differ from those, for example,
deductions with which Astronomers try to explain the origin of the “channels”,
seen through telescopes on Mars. In the designation “channels” itself, there is
shem,Cotati say, from the same root, there was, in essence, the same hypothesis -
deduction.

Similarly, if a modern person, having seen something in the water,
digs a creature, calls it the word “fish”, then by this he does a whole series
complex deductive inferences; and regarding the presence of different organs of the olre-
divided structure, and regarding their relative position, and relative
regarding their vital functions, connections with the aquatic (environment, etc.) Deduction of that
of the same kind, and also, perhaps, erroneous - if, for example, the creature turns out to be
dolphin, i.e. a mammal, or a piece of wood of a suitable shape. Usta-
one can only determine whether it is right or wrong only “practically”: having caught
the alleged fish and subjecting it to dissection, or in another way of the same kind.

When a worker follows an acquired technical rule in his work,
it is a practical deduction: a generalization of previous work applied to a new one
10| PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 4
material, with new ones (i.e., at least somewhat changed over time)
tools, in a new (at least to some extent) environment. Practical
deduction is also hypothetical; but it differs in that its truth or error

The defectiveness is immediately revealed in practice: if, for example, the material turns out to be insufficient

R:

properties are quite similar to the previous one, then the result will be a product that is not
provided for by the applied technical rule.

"A technical invention, when it is not accidental, but scientific, is nothing else,
as a complex, combined practical deduction. The simplest example—
s11060b,. according to which Archimedes set fire to Roman ships during the siege of Syracuse
rabli. According to his own or other people's previous experience, Archimedes mastered the technical
rule according to which some heating of the pre-
meta, directing the reflection of the sun's rays at him with a metal mirror.
Another, much more general technical rule says that, repeating the work
commercial acts, you can get a multiplied amount of their product or even
their results. Third, again quite private, butvery famous, approved
suggests that by increasing the heating of wooden objects, it is possible to achieve
their fire. Linking the first and third rules through the second, Arch-
honey concluded that by directing the reflections of many mirrors to one point of wooden
the wall of a Roman ship, he will set it on fire. Using 150-200 mirrors, de-
the duction was implemented and turned out to be correct.

Complex theoretical deductions differ only in the source material
break,—they deal with cognitive generalizations, instead of technical
fork, but in general they follow the same path. For example, the explanation of the orbit of planets could
be obtained by Newton through such a deductive combination. 1st summary
tion: free bodies fall vertically to the ground. 2-06: side push rejected
It takes falling bodies away from the vertical, giving their path curvature. 3rd, wide
organizing generalization: multiplied action gives multiplied result
tat. The closest conclusion: the stronger the side push, the more significant
deviation from the vertical, especially the sloping curve of the fall line. 4th summary
Meaning: the earth's circumference is a very sloping curved line. Output from the connection
Combination of this idea with the previous one: a strong enough push can give the falling
body a line of path of the same gentle curvature as the earth’s circumference, or else
more sloping, and the body will obviously fly around the Earth without falling on it
surface. 5th generalization: The Moon moves around the Earth. The conclusion from it and pre-
previous: “The moon moves like a body” freely falling on the Earth at additional
statochio strong lateral push.

And here, in the field of deduction, a continuous and inextricable
chain of development from elementary labor organizational techniques to the highest
tires of scientific methods. \

1x.

This is the origin of the two main, universal methods of knowledge. In their
within the framework lies a variety of more private, special methods that are used
change in individual, more or less extensive areas of science. What's true
in relation to the general, it is also true in relation to the particular; is happening
The use of these methods cannotbe different from the origin of those. Track
According to all sciences, this is not possible; I will limit myself to a few typical
illustrations taken from my previous work (“The Cultural Challenges of Our
time", pp. 61-64).

The basis of analytical gbometry is, as is well known, the attribution of
wandering elements to predetermined “coordinate systems”, or
mutually connected lines taken to be motionless. In enormous pain
In most cases, either rectangular or polar coordinates are used.
Nats; i.e., take three straight lines converging at one center at right angles
among themselves; between them lie three also mutually perpendicular silts
ekobti, and the position of the point being studied is determined either by distances’ from each
from these planes, or its distance in a straight line from the center and the magnitude
noah of the angles that this straight line will make with the same planes.
No. 4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 11%

It is easy to notice that in labor technology the system of three rectangular
Dinat was carried out thousands of millions of times before it was made into a scheme
geometric research. It is reproduced exactly at every angle
each quadrangular building and box, therefore, is first
just an elementary diagram of buildings. A. The polar coordinate method was used
practically still a primitive hunter, when he was looking for his way into the virgin
forests or steppes, guided by the sun and stars. He instinctively determines
divided the directions based on the size of the distances between its rays of vision
faces facing the sun, the horizon, familiar stars, distant mountains,
ill. under.; and these angles geometrically represent nothing more than elements of
polar coordinates. at

Analytical algebra is based on the calculation of infinitesimal quantities.
The concept of infinitesimals arose in classical antiquity; and yet
The ancient world, which produced many brilliant mathematicians, did not create differential
cial and integral calculus. Why did this happen? Nearest
the reason is easy to find: according to various remarks of ancient philosophers, there is no doubt
with infinity one can see that the infinitely small, as well as the infinitely painful,
those who inspired them with a kind of disgust, the Authoritarian-aristocratic
the world is characterized by a conservative direction of thought, gravitating towards the stable,
unchangeable, motionless; and the symbols of “infinite” express continuous
“movement in one direction or another, unlimited progress of increasing great-
rank or recesses in them; the feeling of contradiction here was quite natural -
but... Century in the XU, KHUTsP, although the respect of scientists for ancient philosophy was
very great, not only did this disgust disappear, what is possible! explain by explosion
feudal-authoritarian system, and with it the conservatism of life and thought, but it
was replaced by the greatest interest in infinitesimals and gave birth to a new mathematics
matic. Where did this interest come from?

The idea of not being finitely small has as its content only the desire
the desire to indefinitely reduce any given quantity. And that's it
se HU-HU! century, such a desire arose in technical practice itself and
became extremely important for her, It was the era of the birth of world trade,
based on oceanic navigation, and the era of the first spread
manufactory For seafarers, accuracy of orientation has become of great importance.
cutting, for industry—precision tool production. Mini
small error in the course line when traveling thousands of miles along the great
water deserts were threatened not only by complicating and slowing down the difficult path,
but often even the death of the whole. “transport manufactory” - a ship! with him
crew. The desire to reduce this error to almost negligible became
vital. There are also minimal errors and inaccuracies in the manufacture
in instruments have acquired great real significance, thanks to the advanced

To a high degree of technical division of labor El in the craft workshop
professional worker who carries out his work with the help of a number of different
guns, each of them had to make several dozen movementscents per hour,
even less, then in manufactory, operating everything with the same tool, working
The striker makes thousands of monotonous movements with it in such a time. Neulo-
an error visible to the eye in the design of a weapon, exerting its influence on thousands
and thousands of times, produces a very noticeable deterioration in the results of work—
in the quantity of product, in the degree of worker fatigue, etc. Any unevenness
Tool wear and asymmetry must be reduced as much as possible,
not being completely satisfied with any achieved degree, i.e. exactly
required to be reduced to an infinitesimal value. It is clear that the ancient pre-
the visual attitude towards the infinitesimal had to disappear and change
lively interest: new motives, alien to the ancient world, were generated by the new
social and labor practice. . at

How intense this interest was is shown by the enormous efforts
which were then made to create powerful magnifying instruments.
Clumsy astronomical tubes 100 feet or more in length were prepared;
and one of Leeuwenhoek’s magnifying glasses magnified 2000 times. ‘Of course, you can’t see through it
* 12 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 4

there was almost nothing, thanks to the darkness of the field of vision; and all the hard work on her
spent, had, in essence, only a symbolic meaning, - expressed the...
ability, so to speak, to grasp with the eyes the infinitesimal.

When the infinitesimals took their present place—as a matter of fact—
elements of practical, finite quantities, then analysis became possible
quantities in their changes and in their connection. And all the production technology that
became progressive and changed with increasing speed, persistently
completed this task. ®

H.

The same is true in other scientific fields.

Physics, chemistry, theory of the structure of matter, this entire group of sciences has recently
In her time, time is increasingly merging into one whole, and in its social essence
represents the general doctrine of those resistances—activities of external
genera, © with which the collective labor of mankind meets, The Teaching is pro-
no oneThis principle is based on one universal method called "
energy. Its essence, the law of energy—ontropy, is nothing more than an incomprehensible
the principles and method of machine production transferred into knowledge.
The transformation of energy from one form to another is exactly what they do
machines in production practice; the law of conservation of energy, according to which’
it is not created in experience, but is always taken from one or another available source.
is expressed by the fact that, taking advantage of the work of the forces of nature, the labor force
the lecturer must always draw them from some given reserve. The law of entro-
pii speaks of the impossibility of completely transforming the forces of nature into those forms
which can be used by humanity,—0 constant partial dis-
sowing energy in the form of heat: a direct expression of objective limits, on
which must be encountered. machine production.

In the field of life sciences, methodological principles play a huge role
natural selection. Countless facts are explained from his point of view
expediency of life forms. He talks about survival and reproduction
forms adapted to their environment, the extinction of unadapted ones. Pro-
some 60 years have passed since this principle was formulated by Dar-
wine and Wallace in science. But even thousands of years before that in cattle breeding.
in the cultivation of cereals, vegetable gardening, and horticulture, the “art
national selection"; it allowed those forms of domesticity to survive to reproduce.
them animals and useful plants that were most adapted to
conditions and needs of the farm, eliminating unsuitable
new And here, as we see, the technical method preceded the scientific one, which:
was created in his image and likeness.

The conclusions are clear. In the world of thought, as in all life, humanity does not create from
nothing. The kingdom of knowledge grew out of the kingdom of labor and is deeply rooted in it,
feeds on its juices, is built from its elements. This is where the real content comes from.
knowledge of science—collective labortorture; there the soul of science is born—its
methods.

The old science did not know or understand this; and this largely weakened, ensured
it was strong; from here fetishes, imaginary questions, unnecessary deviations were born in her.
doubts and complications, from which she gradually and with difficulty frees herself over
last e decades. The first, main fetish of the old science is something, abeo-
fierce knowledge containing eternal truths. He separated people of science from their work
commercial classes; believing in him and considering themselves his priests, scientists could not help but feel
to act as aristocrats of the spirit, superior beings compared to those
the masses of the people, to whom the service of pure truth is inaccessible, who live
physical labor and practical concerns. Questions about the “essence” were imaginary
ties" of certain phenomena, about the "forces" hidden under them; these questions have been raised
diminished the minds of scientists and caused the expenditure of great effort, distracting them from action.
a fundamental, universal question—how to master phenomena. Fruitless tricks
and subtleties were generated by the desire to replace “rough” labor methods of change
thinking, weighing, experimenting in “ideal”, purely logical ways,
No. 4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 18

proof of truths through other truths recognized as indisputable and
unconditional—which in fact does not and cannot be in the ‘changeable flow of growth’
shared collective experience. The old science was not aware of the nature of its methods,
therefore, she did not use them sparingly and could only develop them by touch, and not
systematically.

New science will change all this. you know where you're coming from and you know what you're doing
in the general organization of the work of mankind. She will consciously and steadily
serve the cause of collective labor and development, seeing in it our source and our
appointment. It will be close and understandable to the working masses, it will be deeper
immerse themselves in them and will not tear them away from them, but will more and more closely connect their
workers-scientists, until the complete merger of both. It will be science not because
abusive, but that's all. humanity, a powerful instrument of its harmonious and harmonious.
associations.

A. Bogdanov.

Way aboutletarian criticism and "Worker's Poetry"
blow" by A. Gastev.

The paths of development of the bourgeoisie and the proletariat are incompatible. This truth is for everyone:
the more or less developed worker has long known. However, in reality it is often possible
compromises are made, whereby people do not even notice the contradiction with their
main position. For example, the assessment of a work of art, in 060-
benefits from the aesthetic side, often on behalf of the proletariat, are given
to a specialist who does not take a class point of view. These kinds of compromises
are harmful and indicate far from complete liberation from bourgeois influences
ny. Not just analysis of a work of art, but any analysis. and research
conduct in any area of life should not, ‘at least, without strict con-
troll, we trust representatives of the ideas of other classes. If we wake up"
we think the main characteristic trend of bourgeois literature of recent times is
me in the field of artistic and philosophical, then we will have to characterize
call it a bankruptcy of bourgeois consciousness in the development of historical
prospects. The bourgeoisie and its ideologists, hired and non-hired, did not find
justification in empowering the developing mind. On this path I received
The current results and conclusions did not bode well for them. They led to ruin
capitalist society, what bourgeois ideologists allow and desire
they couldn't. This prompted them to look for a way out in the fog of all kinds of mystical
theories, in varied and sophisticated forms of theosophy, occultism, acceptance
tivism, intuitionism, etc. d. Admit the end of your position and building a bourgeoisie
Juavia could not - all the forces of her soul opposed it. Instead she announced
the impotence of the human intellect (considering it not as a specific
something inherent in this or that class, but as something abstract, fundamentally
the same for all humanity), which is supposedly incapable of overcoming
a number of obstacles facing him. They became anti-intelligence
supply intuition, guesswork, shift the center of gravity to these sides helo-
eternal knowledge, in order to rely on what cannot be counted, what is incomprehensible
and continues to be unclear and mysterious; true to their nature, they
these aspects, separating them from knowledge as a whole, were distorted, presented in a false way,
mysterious and mystical form.

If the bourgeoisie, brushing aside the impending collapse of the capitalist
building and her dominance, invented for herself a world of pleasant dreams and fantasies,
through the prism of which she wants to impose on us to consider all events and phenomena
world, then the proletariat must mercilessly expose this mirage.
In the person of their most cunning representatives Bergson and Boutroux, the bourgeois
Zia proclaimed the surrender of the human mind, declared that 25 centuries
14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 4

developed it led to a dead end, and recommended a way out of this dead end
to subordinate the “powerless mind” to intuition in their mystical interpretation. On oto
we, the workers, answer: you, good gentlemen, the hopelessness of your prospects
situations in the development of social life were taken for the impotence of reason in general.
This is your business, as you please, move along your chosen path.
You and I are not on the same road. Our position and based on the study of his convictions
Science tells us that the power of organized consciousness gradually develops and
subjugates intuition-guess. Intuition, or rather the subconscious, is
only a repository of accumulated experience, and our task in relation to
this repository - to learn with the help of conscious efforts of the will of the user -
to help them do the right job at the right time. The area of chance if we and
have not yet been expelled, they have already begun to carry out such a task. Creativity by
pure inspiration gradually retreats into the realm of legend. In our age, creators
in all areas they set themselves consciously defined goals and systematically,
They are literally implemented. The area of ​​invention is transferred to the factory. In Ame-
There are invention factories in Rome and Germany where research is carried out
according to a precisely developed collective planway, and instead of personal discretion
Friction regulates the work of creativity, a collectively developed system.

The working class must ‘establish its ways and its assessment in whatever way
‘was the area. And if other comrades tell us the opposite, then this is a sign of non-
understanding the position and tasks of the proletariat.

Everything depends not on this or that amount of knowledge of facts (they can be
the persistence of labor to always acquire), but depends on the connection in which the data is considered
a social event or phenomenon, from what position it is assessed.
When studying the laws of social development, Marche approaches from the point of view
from the perspective of the working class as a producer. This method of research gave him
the opportunity to create scientific socialism, which would radically change the view of society
national development. A religious person places God at the center of the world and man
on earth, as a being for whom all nature was created; and depending on
This is what he considers and builds his relationship to social and world life.
The materialist technician will consider everything from the point of view of combinations of materials.
real energy, its connection and separation. The results of this. construction
give him the opportunity to understand nature and place himself in such a connection,
which gives us great results in the pursuit of his ‘practical goals,
allows you to make a corresponding path choice or combination. Same
The most important thing is to determine the motives and forms of proletarian literature in the choice of means.
It all depends on the method of approach, from what position we will look at it.

In search of the form and content of work literature, also evaluation, work
whose critic must first of all approach the matter consciously and in an organized manner.
And this means: it must proceed from the essence of the nature of the proletariat, its
irony in society, deeply aware of this situation in the capitalist system
and noticing ways of development. The proletarian writer must understand the connection of his
class with the current state of society and clearly understand it’ open-
current prospects.

Every daym, the revolution is increasingly promoting workers-writers-
lei, and the day is approaching when the worker-writer will become a common occurrence. ,
Most working-class writers act as poets. The predominant motive is
Their creativity is a reflection of modern revolutionary sentiments.
Basic, positive proletarian motives, in which the internal
the friction springs of the workers' socialist movement are almost nonexistent. And this
understandable. In order to ‘depict with all the power of artistic expression
the basic development of life, the forms in which it begins to pour out, the struggle of becoming
ry remnants, their vitality, pre-death convulsions, and clearly draw a picture
Well, how does a new person in this life, despite obstacles, break through the routine?
and inertia and stands before us in the bright features of a powerful prototype of social
a logical system that organizes our volitional efforts into a single powerful impulse
to achieve the final goal - in order to be able to depict this, you must not only be
an artist, but, in addition, it is good to know the economy, the laws of its development
№4 | PROLETARIAN. CULTURE. 15

fully master the Marxist method, which makes it possible to reveal everything
layers and mold of bourgeois flair.

Another main motive of proletarian ‘creativity’ is the depiction of psycho-
logic of the advanced worker. Worker-writers are faced with the task of imagining
to develop the proletarian psyche, its clash and struggle with the bourgeoisie
cultural relics, to lead the conscious spirit of the working class fighter through the centuries-old
layers of mud that have accumulated along the paths of bourgeois culture, to show temporary
defeats and doubts, struggles and renewed impulses to move forward
ed; show how failures and defeats expand experience and with even greater power
are pushed to break the path to what is planned by the very course of society. development
ideal - all this requires from the working writer a clear understanding of objective
class conditions, and the ability to subtly analyze emotional experiences in
connections with social life and environment. This task is complex—it presentsshows the requirement for the working writer to master the method and independently to the end
think; think only this will make it possible to feel clearly and consciously. If
and one can feel without fully understanding, then’ this feeling is clear to others
cannot be depicted. What is represented in the final expression is always subject to
control of consciousness.

Usually a working writer succeeds more or less easily in imagining
to study the psychology of the low-conscious worker. Psychology of advanced treatment
taria is complex, it is closely connected and dependent on social
development processes that occur within the moribund system and are hidden
its shell. They themselves need to be revealed. Artistic creativity
in its process relies on subconscious experience, on the sum of deposited
in the course of life, impressions from surrounding everyday life. And this life before October
The coup was entirely bourgeois. The capitalist revolution regulates
and regulates life by bourgeois norms that cover the whole life to the very
our smallest manifestations, starting with the design on candies, texts,
calendars for every day, to the highest rules of morality, which prescribe

is formed by a religion that serves the bourgeois system, or is derived from cunning
constructed vague philosophical theories. To escape from this maze
intricacies, you need to think deeply, know the internal springs of movement
changes in social forms. If the worker, in the end, succeeds in all this
overcome, then only because class contradictions, as a result of the pro-
production material changes, constantly push him to fight, and
it acquires knowledge that formalizes and organizes practical le-
into a harmonious ‘order’ and thus contributes to the achievement of
goals with the least waste of effort.

And so, when we, aware of the howling complexity of the tasks that face
before proletarian writers, the author speaks with genuine not only
revolutionary-combat, but also deeply positive proletarian motives,
then we dYou must treat it with special attention and seriousness. These mo-
tives are new to us, we cannot provide certain verified
previous experience of requirements, we can use guidance in the assessment
Only the general principles of Marcianism, which we discussed above.

Before us is the book by A. Gastev, “The Poevia of the Worker’s Strike.” Many newspapers
and journalists gave reviews about it. Almost everyone noted the originality of the motives and new
new approach to them. Here is the introductory prose poem:

WE GROW FROM IRON.

“Look.—I stand among them: machine tools, hammers, cupolas and tories, and among
hundreds of comrades. ;

At the top there is an iron forged expanse.

On the sides there are beams and angles.

They rise ten fathoms.

They bend right and left,
16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE-. No. 4
They are connected by rafters in the domes and, like the shoulders of a giant, hold the howl
iron building. .

“They are swift, they are sweeping, they are strong;

They require even more strength.

I look at them and straighten up.

New iron blood flows into the veins.

I've grown up more.

I myself am growing iron shoulders and immensely strong arms. |
I merged with the iron of the building. |
Got up.

I stick my shoulders out into the rafters, the top ones. beams, roof.

My feet are still on the ground, but my head is higher than the building:

I am still choking from these inhuman efforts and am already shouting:
` - “I ask for words, comrade, words.”

A kelly echo covered my words, the entire building trembles with anticipation.

And I rose even higher, I was already on par with the pipes.

r And not a story, not a speech, but only full, my IEN: I will shout:

“We will win.” ‚

With this poem forged from jelly, A. Gastev introduces us to the world
of your creativity. With his title “We grow from iron,” the author conveys
the essence of the philosophy of the industrial proletariat. The path to conquering pro-
letariat of the world is inextricably and necessarily linked with the growth of machine production
vodetva.

The collective will of nameless, unknown workers who invested energy
the energy of their nerves and muscles, the iron buildings that embodied it in machines,
rafters, hammers, cranes, connected by invisible currentsand merged with living mixtures
their workers and changing workers. The immense growth of iron buildings influenced
pumps new blood into the veins of new workers and thereby increases the strength of the proletariat.

“We will win,” A. Gastev ends the poem, “and this is not a simple
the agitator's assurance, this is the vital conclusion of the necessary development, inexorable
the result of eclectic growth.

Not so long ago the worker viewed production with hostility. Even a question
about production standards caused a hostile attitude of workers, they saw in it
the desire for a new, subtle way of exploitation. A. Gastev with this poem
creation shows them that in every beam, in every laid concrete and
in all production, the work of the workers, their vital juices, their will, was quenched.

A machine made by a worker on the other side of the ocean and brought to us,
serves as a living connection with those workers and continues to serve our growth
and the growth of the world proletarian. Every living worker is only a link in this
an immensely growing chain, and it is in this growth that the worker is vitally interested,
from here “new iron blood” is poured into it, promoting its development,
giving strength to victory. That's why we say that for us workers, art
It’s not just fun that it organizes our will and consciousness, That’s what it says
we have another working poet, V. Kirillov, on approximately the same topic:

“The stronger the ringing hammer hits, crushes, forges, the more
joy to shine in a dark world. '

The faster the drives and gears move, the brighter the veins
our days are burning."

This poetry is truly proletarian, it organizes our will into a single
impulse, directing it along the main channel of the internal development of the worker’s forces
class. She infuses ‘confidence’ into the timid, still unconscious souls of the workers.
in victory and points out to them that only they are the masters of production, this industrial
the backbone of all social life.

“At times his (crane) had eyes looking out from behind the wicker beams and beams”
full of long-term plans. And then, in the crowds of people, enthusiastic
legends and tales of future riseoh, about even bigger ones, about the heaviest ones.”
|

No. 4: PROLETAR CULTURE. 17

“The strained metal of the crane heated up, burned, and transformed. The entire faucet has drained
<soldered, found new red-hot metal blood in himself, became a miracle
we see... with eyes and with heart, with soul and thoughts.” “He friendly infected
“With your iron thoughts there are millions of construction workers.”

For A. Gastev, a car is not a soulless object, it is a living clot of a collection.
active nervous energy of workers, which continues to live in all parts
production and serves as an incentive for living proletarians in their
for further work. The machine regulates the relations of workers, their behavior is pre-
writes them certain ‘actions’, and at the same time it is a continuation
their hands, feelings and plans. A. Gastev animates the machine—it connects the workers
whatever the past/and future, they live in it. Its development is the development of pro-
tariat, the triumph and victory of the machine are inextricably linked 6 triumph and victory
oh workers,

The “worker-creator” says to him: \

- “Wonderfully, I squeezed my earth - the planet with a steel forged will.
I boldly challenged the earthly, once terrible, evil elements to battle;

I defeated them, tamed them, chained them.

Punch through with a sharpened chisel and cut through the unpierced hard distance.

- Harden the metal, polish it; bring fire from the buried depths
hit the earth, bring it and strike it with your faithful hammer, with your chisel pointed accurately
thrust, and take an inquisitive thought into the unknown,

-Are you going to die? .

- Die with at least one crazy desire conquered. Let it not be you who is the military
til, but pass on the impulses of combat labor to others.

- Keep trying to forge and forge, keep trying heavy steel rails
lift and advance in bottomless, unknown, silent atmospheres to neighboring ones,
still unsolved, alien planets.

It is forbidden?

- Oh, many will die... They will die without number... But I know, I’m sure: they will bind, girdle-
jester the universe with fast, strong rails of will.

- That's it / parents in the efforts of iron! He will rise and rise proudly
will soar over the world and grow, unknown to us today,sa-admiration-
nie, the first miracle of the universe, fearless worker-creator-man,” E.

In the beautiful work “Tower” A. Gastev vividly and powerfully draws the unswerving
new striving forward. Doubts arise, the fall of the grave is inevitable,
but the workers come one after another, build and make their way forward through doubts
falling and falling, higher and higher forward. “Break through the heights with your spire
a daring tower world for us.” G

“Stronger than words”, “Iron pulses”, “Rails”, “We have encroached”, “Kraz”,
“Gate”, “We grow from iron”, all these original and strong things will be
be read by workers and inspire poets and artists, giving them strong images,
as incentives for new creativity.

In the poetry of A. Gastev there is no place for the personal “I”, the spirit of individualism; car
the beam and the chisel do not say who made them. They were produced by unknown workers:
`The efforts of tens or hundreds of workers are invested in one piece of chisel: Starting
© mines where ore is mined using all kinds of devices, iron-
roads, houses, factories - all this took part in the production of chisels,
There is no place for “I”. There is only one Many-faced, immeasurably large, and
“we” that is taken into account, and this “we” inspires the proletarian, perfects him and exalts him.
defines a “worker-creator-man”. .

Deep in concept, strong in individual moments of expression, but not
especially diverse in content, the poetry of A. Gastev is diverse in
shape: The shape is far from perfect and even. It is clear that he did not write specifically
ally, and by the way, in order to get rid of this or that image or motive.
A. Gastev needs serious work, he doesn’t have his own form. By content
A. Gastev’s poetry is truly proletarian, and the form is borrowed from bourgeois
writers - he has both symbolism and impressionism, mixed forms -

Proletarian Culture, No. 4. | 2
18 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 4

realistic and everyday. The best work “We grow from iron”, co-
holding, being completely independent, in form - Whitman. .
The violent elemental power of amorphous aanarchist petty-burquoise demo-
Whitman's vision is fundamentally divergent from the proletarian representation
the influence of the world. The proletariat is a class that knows what it wants. Everything
He contrasts the indefinite with strictly conscious organization.
A. Gastev with his works showed the very basis, the internal blood
nasal canals of industrial machinism, which develop with inexorable
consistency and discipline the will of living workers, teaching them
making hundreds, thousands of movements at one moment.

Form, the content of which is given by the internal life of production, dolekna_,
to be as harmonious and inexorably accurate as the logic of the mechanism of machines,
which subordinates and processes the actions of prole-.
Tariat. The proletarian form must fully correspond to that strict scientific
accuracy, precision and organization, on the basis of which the struggle against prolapse develops.
Tariat. From the past and present epochs the proletariat takes only material
uses individual techniques, ways of depicting a particular action
or descriptions of items; and the construction of the whole must be self-organized
worthily, in full accordance with the new ‘class content of psychology,
economy, life.

A. Gastev lays the foundation of proletarian poetry. Let in some
In some parts it is imperfect. -The shape is not yet its own, but its material is durable and will serve
live as an incentive and starting point for the further development of working literature.

Fedor, Kalinun,

Educational work and productive work
At a new school. _

At a meeting of the State Commission for People's Education
47 August Comrade A.V. Lunacharekim announced the work he developed together
with the Petrograd comrades, a declaration in which the main principles
principles of a unified labor school. The Moscow Collegium contrasted her with another
that plan for organizing a school - a unified labor school-commune.

The proletariat at the moment looks at school as a means of social
stical education. Creative free trud and collectivism - mastery
socialist society, they need to be educated in the growing generation
leniya from the very first days of conscious life. Therefore, we must carefully
ability to find out the fundamental difference between the two proposed
plans, a big issue is being resolved, on which much depends on the future.

The most pressing question on which all those who took part dwelled
in the discussion is the question of productive and educational work in school,
about the relationship between one and the other type of labor. Petrograd-
The Russian plan is based mainly on educational work, the Moscow
on the contrary, on productive labor predominantly.

In the Petrograde Declaration, the principles of labor are formulated as follows:
way: “the requirement to introduce labor as the basis of teaching rests on two
completely different reasons, the results of which, however, easily merge
among themselves. at

The first foundation is psychology, which teaches us what is true
Only what is actively perceived is perceived. The child craves activity
he was kept motionless. He learns with extreme ease

knowledge when it is transmitted to him in a fun, active form of play or work,
m4 FLYING CULTURE. 19

which, when skillfully staged, coincide, and he was taught by ear, from a book. Child
he is proud of acquiring any practical skill, but he was not given any at all.

From this point of view, the labor principle reduces to active, creative
getting to know the world.

Another source of the modern advanced school’s aspirations to work is
is a direct desire to acquaint students with what is most
they will need in life, with what plays a dominant role in it.

We must remember, however, that if we are not at all against special technical
education for older people, then we energetically protest against
any specific narrowing of the circle of labor education at the lower levels
penalties of a unified school, i.e., at least until the age of 44.

Until this time shcola should not pursue craft goals, but give
polytechnic education, introducing children in practice to the methods of all universities
modern forms of labor, partly in his own workshop, or on his own farm,
partly, if possible, transferring lessons to factories and factories.

Thus, the Petrograd Declaration puts forward labor that is once again pre-
giving, cultivating in children an active attitude in the NOA to the world) and ana-
together with the methods of all the most important forms of labor.

It seems to us that this is the only correct point of view, which firmly
must be learned by everyone who is involved in the matter in one way or another
public education, to the construction of a new school.

Moscow Project No. 9 formulates its principles as follows:

“Physical labor is introduced into both levels of school. Students according to
transition to higher age groups are consistently introduced in the economic
life of the country through participation in productive (economically)
life) labor."

Therefore, as stated in the “Explanatory Note on Labor Processes in
unified communist school", the labor school should be built according to
type of school-commune, i.e. all school members, teachers, students and all employees
must form one working team pursuing goals. comprehensive
development and implementation of productive labor necessary in the interests of
collective as a self-sufficient economic organization and to familiarize
with the working life of the community surrounding the school.

The Moscow Collegium turns the school into a ‘productive commune and
naturally with a strict division of labor. An excitatory beginning with such
formulation of the matter will disappear entirely under the pressure of the comprehensive development of the
Exhaustive labor. In essence, this project is a school, as a special organization
tion with its special tasks, negates it, replacing it with a commune, very similar
Ma those that were built by utopian societies and which quickly died, or
degenerated into their opposite. This school-commune, how self-sufficient
current economic unit, reminiscent of those petty bourgeoisnew plans with which
we know each other from anarchist literature.

And quite reasonably the Petrograd comrades ask: “Isn’t our ideal—
a commune in the sense of some Toletov village? Why should school
to withdraw into oneself rather than feel like an open part of all that is human
world as every social element now is.”

A self-sufficient economic unit-school instructs the child not to
only cleaning floors, washing clothes, preparing teaching aids, agricultural
cultural tools and much more needed in the commune, but also “survey
natural conditions and resources of the school area" to find out "the possibility
introduction of new industries into local economic life,
possible due to local conditions, but for one reason or another unknown
to the population",

“The productive labor of the school commune must be given
the task is not only to meet the needs of the school itself and students (physical
and mental), but also, whenever possible, benefit the local population.”

The compilers of the explanatory note follow these practical instructions
tried to preface concisely formulated basic principles.

5*
20 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No.4

“Labor processes: of all kinds must be arranged in such a way
in such a way that, on the one hand, they are the main means for testing
cultivating students' curiosity in the branches of knowledge taught
at school, an impulse to acquire and assimilate new concepts and theoretical
knowledge; on the other hand, illustration and practical confirmation of specific
‘new physical material of information and knowledge communicated to students in theoretical
technical explanations."

“At the same time, the organization of labor processes must take into account the development
development in students: a) a meaningful attitude towards any work process,
6) respect for all productive work, regardless of its content,
c) developing the will to act and the desire to translate one’s ideas into concrete
practical form, d) development of abilities and individual characteristicstey
student, e) conscious attitude towards the rational organization of work
personal, social (collective) and national development in the student
‚self-awareness about. to oneself, as a necessary useful thing. school employee
collective, society, state, humanity."

Not to mention the rather strange from a scientific point of view formulation of the separate
local 'these principles, - for example, the separation of society from the state, -
we have to point out that, despite its vagueness, ambiguity and imprecision
However, they do not deny labor as the basis of teaching, but
The concept of the school as a commune reduces this principle to an empty phrase.

The general formulation we have given about the organization of labor processes,
perhaps it does not even contradict the Petrograde point of view and is completely
Of course, it is insufficient in the sense of protecting the school-commune. Moscow project
hastily edited and therefore full of blunders. School, for example, cannot
give, as the explanatory note insists, a completely conscious attitude
to any labor process, it can only introduce “the methodology to all

“the lowest forms of labor,” as correctly stated in the Petrograd Declaration,
Likewise, one should not insist on respect for all productive work.
There should be more clarity on this point.

Speaking about labor productivity, Muscovites emphasized productivity
economically in the narrow sense, so we don’t know, they think
whether the note writers engaged in productive work, such as cleaning. sewage,
washing floors, etc. If not, then what should be the attitude towards this
work at school? This is necessary and useful work, and the school-commune, as a self-
dominant economic unit must fulfill it. It seems to us that
What needs to be developed in a child is not so much respect for all work, despite his
content, as much as the awareness of the need to fulfill it in the interests of
or another group,

We will not dwell in detail on all those points that are not
acceptable to us, it startedif we were too far away and perhaps it would turn out
beyond the confines of a journal article.

We will try to formulate briefly, but with the necessary completeness and clarity.
general tasks of modern education and upbringing. This is precisely what will give
the ability to navigate the proposed plans and evaluate them.

Every person must be a conscious member of his society; to this
he must prepare with the first glimmers of his consciousness, starting from childhood
garden and ending with high school.

At the same time, the school must furnish and organize the work of public
education in such a way as to develop a beautiful, creative personality in a person.

After all, the task of socialism is not endless work, but harmonious development
personalities; the work of the collective only provides this opportunity.

Until now, this possibility could not be realized, although the bourgeois
the school, in its own way, of course, more than once put forward and vigorously propagated the ideal
harmonious development of personality,

We live in the highest development of capitalist society with its... high
kim division of labor. And this leads not only to the individualization of the employee,

'direct manufacturer of the product, but also what is of particular interest
№4 PROLEGARIAN CULTURE, 2g

us now, and the scientific organizer of this or that enterprise, or a separate
south parts. All our sciences arose and developed under the direct pressure
nium of economic life. And astronomy and botany, like many other sciences,
Scientific disciplines, ultimately sciences, are also applied.

The further the division of labor went, the more professional development developed.
new education. People in the struggle for their existence, serving the interests of capital
talistic society, went into specialization, and the society itself broke up
divided into groups of specialists who understand each other little and are disconnected
in its consciousness and psyche, Each group is strong taken individually, but
all together they lose their strength, as people of different consciousness and spiritual
warehouse The bourgeois school felt this; she saw how a person from the living
nounnature turned into a dry specialist, an appendage to a complex capital machine.
tala. She saw, but did not understand the essence of the process, and could not understand it
‘(in its entirety.

Entering into a new organization of society in which labor will be organized
on a voluntary basis and will be deprived of the character of a grueling and unbearable
Long work that takes away all physical strength and dulls spiritual abilities -
ity, where production technology will be so high that direct
the manufacturer of the product and the provider of science will be in the same relationship
to the labor process, i.e. as observer and control, we put forward the ideal
polytechnic education, outlining such a plan for organizing a unified labor
howl of a school that would unite all labor and the disciplines that serve it
a single organizational principle that would make it possible
easily and freely approach individual branches at the highest levels of knowledge
labor and knowledge to perform an active role in society.

But since we place work as the basis of pedagogical techniques, it must
eken be organized not as an end goal, but as a means so that the person in the role
‘an active and useful member of the team was truly adapted to the challenges
fulfilling its function.

To do this, there is no need to study all branches of labor, nor to transform
chikola into a self-sufficient economic commune, you need to familiarize yourself with the general
methods and means of performing the most important forms of labor in order to develop in individual
viduum, both in its individual organs and in their equal combinations in the vavi-
<the cost of labor, the ability and dexterity to quickly adapt to different conditions
branches of production.

Having turned into a self-sufficient communist economy with strict
division of labor, the school will kill the creativity in children, and this is how
phases contradicts the general tasks of education.

The school-commune will be forced to adapt for economic purposes
children for the work where they will be more capable; it will inevitably be
develop in them those labor skills, which are primarily useful to the school -
commune, so as not to introduce disorganization into the planned economy. Freedom.
creative impulse will be narrowed by material considerations. Self-employed
The scope of spiritual development will be limited to the walls of the commune school.

Finally, rough formulation of the labor principle can even cause children
negative attitude towards work.

None of them need systematic washing of clothes or cleaning of manure in barns,
‘neither heating fires nor cleaning pipes, etc. n. pleasure, of course, will not be delivered,
especially with the inevitable division of labor in a self-sufficient economy.

It is impossible to so naively and primitively roughly understand and carry out labor
‘beginning at school.

We had to listen to stories about similar labor organization
new beginning in children's colonies this summer. Leaders © proudly
stated that their children do everything themselves, that the beginning of their labor was carried out with a purpose
com, without any compromise. So what? Proletarian children protested, reasonably
declaring that their father and mother were already “tortured” with work at home. But this, of course,
‘by the way; the main thing is that children at 6-7 years old, washing their clothes and washing the floors,
at first, some did it willingly - they turned into the dirtiest
22 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 4

ny creatures, transferring uncleanness from linen and floor to the face: head, ears, nose and mouth.
And this does not depend on poor organization of the business; it's inevitable because
This work, of course, is anti-hygienic, and it is unlikely that in the near future, approximately,
within ten years we will be able to place every form of labor in the best hygienic conditions
conditions.

But the leaders of the colonies have one important advantage.

Carrying out the labor principle without compromise, they do not dream of self-sufficiency.
farming and do not feed illuvium on the productivity of such labor.

“Is it really necessary for children to inflict very bad and expensive pain on themselves,
when can I buy something good and cheap, etc. Is it really necessary to return to pre-
machine period of the economy?

“The main task of the school is to maximize developmentindividual creative abilities and characteristics of the child, lay
into the soul of a teenager, the general public, the ability to really, with all my heart
to feel like a living and solid part of a great whole. Voluntary
discipline, spirit of mutual assistance, united work... various acts,
aimed at creating a common complex result—these are the principles that
ry next to the study of the past and present of humanity in the light of scientific
socialism, they will give us the kind of citizen we need and the kind we will never have.
fed by the bourgeois school, which knows how to produce egoists or sheep.”

This is how the Petrograd Declaration formulates the tasks of the school, and this is the only thing.”
correct formulation of the question.

Some comrades are trying to strengthen the Moscow position by exile
on good. well-known passage from volume 1 of Capital, where K. Marx says the following:
general: “if factory legislation, as wrested with difficulty from capital-
the first concession, combined elementary education with factory work,
then there is no doubt that the inevitable conquest of the working class
Som political domination is established in schools for workers, a place for theoretical
and practical training in technology” (neg. 404).

No matter how you interpret this quote, it is obviously not a stretch in this case.
to the place that at the meeting of the State Commission comrade. A. V. Lunacharsky
and explained.

K. Kautsky in his “Economic Doctrine of K. Marx” uses this
quote in the chapter “The Machine as a Factor for Transformation.” Ours on this matter
He ends his reasoning with the words: “machine production creates the soil.
but which will give rise to a new human personality, far from one-sided restriction
poverty: crafts and manufacture, a slave of nature, which was a member of the primitive
noah communist community; personality, physical and spiritual strength and beauty
which was not bought at the price of suppressing unequal slaves, as during the classical
chesk antiquity; personality, harmoniously developed, cheerful and capable
I hope to enjoy the death of the lord of the earth and forcesnature, in fraternal equality
merging with other members of the community." 4

These statements, as much as possible, coincide with the main position
Petrograd Declaration:

“Since by labor education we do not mean training
individual craft work, and familiarity with labor processes,
approaching collective work of the factory type, insofar as
We bring into the school itself that great collectivizing force that “
forged and welded the unity of the modern proletariat,”

The question is clear. Vee. advantages, theoretical and practical, on the side
Petrograd,

The proletariat needs; a unified labor school in which labor is the basis
teaching, would instill in children an active attitude towards the world around them
and would acquaint them with the methods of all the most important forms of labor.

Valeryan Polyansky.
No. 4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 23

Even there should be a workers' club.

Since the revolution, workers have been organizing their own workers' clubs everywhere.
But we cannot close the chapter on the fact that workers’ clubs, for the establishment of which
their founders undertake with such ardor, often wither away, and sometimes even
completely closed. 7

It seems to me that the reason for this lies in the fact that the organizers of the club
realize what a workers' club should be, and reduce the whole matter to structure, for example
measures, a tea room and a dining room, a hall for meetings and performances. Although the dining room and hall
it is necessary to organize them at the club, but they are not the point of the matter. If only they had a point
business, then there would be no reason to organize clubs: you can have lunch and embroider tea
and in a public or factory canteen, or even just in a tavern. The crux of the matter
and not in a hall for meetings and performances: such a hall can simply be hired, according to
as needed, or in the theater, in cinema, or somewhere else. The heart of the matter is in the club
in something ‘else. Let us examine in detail what it consists of.

Strictly speaking, a club is an association of a group of people for some
for some specific purpose. There are cycling clubs, yacht clubs and various
other sports clubs, singing clubs, etc.theater, reading clubs
reciters, political clubs, etc. d.

These leno names outline the purpose of each. from these clubs; people converge
in order to engage in sports, art, politics, etc. Where
social life is in full swing, where people get used to uniting with each other -
home for a wide variety of purposes. In America, a typical country of clubs,
The habit of uniting in special circles and clubs has so permeated the whole of society.
a special atmosphere that children 7-8 years old already unite in all kinds of clubs:
club for reading fairy tales, club for sewing doll dresses, club for collectors
butterflies, etc.

The number of club members can vary greatly: “and three people can
form a club; can be registered as members of the club and thousands. In modern
In a capitalist society, its members are divided into classes and professions. By
People vary greatly in lifestyle, habits, and interests. One
lifestyle, habits, interests, education from landowners, other
one among large industrialists, another among merchants, another among clerks, etc. d.
Between people of the same social class there are many common points of contact -
innovations, many common interests, many common views on things, etc. d. Therefore
It is quite obvious that estate, class and professional clubs have arisen.
There are clubs for nobles, merchants, clerks, clubs for journalists and publishers. d.
The purpose of such clubs is to spend your leisure time in the company of spiritually close people,
conduct in a way that suits the tastes, habits, and needs of a given community
natural layer.

Usually a person spends his free time with his family. But there are many without families,
Those whose families are far away, there are many who are burdened by the closed atmosphere
modern family with its eternal conversations about children, the household, who want
spend your leisure time with those you can talk to about what interests you. Sho-
The need to communicate with people cannot be satisfied by going on a visit, where
you can’t feel at home, quite easily, without embarrassing others,
don't bother them,interfere. This need, so to speak,
in the “social home” and served as an impetus for the education of all
class, estate, professional clubs.

The working man, more than anyone else, needs his social
new home. It is needed because not a single class of society is developed
tan strongly social instincts, as in the working class; very character
work, the struggle for their interests unites the working class. The worker has extreme
There is a strong desire to be in the company of fellow workers. Yes and in part
his home comfort and home environment are not great; tight,
24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 4

wretched premises, noise, crying children - all this does not allow the working person to rest.
century. In large work centers there are many migrant workers who, in their free time,
time has absolutely nowhere to go. Among the workers of the newcomers without family
more cops than among any other class. It is quite clear that in
in the past, all the taverns and taverns were packed with workers, packed
they are now. Clubs are needed for the working class more than for everyone else,
A workers' club should provide an opportunity for a man or woman to spend time
as they please. , .

First of all, the club should give the worker the opportunity to relax. He should
be close to the place of his work, his members, so that a tired person does not need
was to drag yourself to a club somewhere far away, for someone working physical work
this side is more important than for a person engaged in some kind of office
or some other sedentary job, It is necessary to install a washroom at the club,
where a person could wash, change clothes, generally put himself in order, so that
he didn’t have to trail behind it or go to his apartment, sometimes very
far away. It is important that workers come to the club straight from work. For cheap-
payment should be given a clean towel, soap, and if possible, then
arrange so that there are lockers at the washrooms, where the club’s regulars would be,
coming straight from work, they coulds to keep clothes for a change (of course there
where washrooms and clothes racks exist in factories, have them
there is no need for the club).

Tea and lunch should be given without delay when workers return from work,
Long queues must be avoided. The dining room should not be noisy,
there is no need to install a gramophone, etc., because after the noise of the factory a person
needs silence, the club should have a number of rooms dedicated to
for different purposes. Among these rooms there should be one where it is impossible to talk
brew and where a person can go with tea to just sit, be silent,
move away from the daily hustle and bustle: If it is impossible to set aside a separate room for this,
Naty, then it is necessary that in the dining room there are such secluded corners where the tired
a person could sit alone. In the Zoological Gardens in London, the animals of promise
accommodated with extraordinary comfort. Adjacent to the cage is a garden for the animal and a dark
room. When asked what this dark room is for, the watchman explains that the animals
get nervous and feel bad if they don't have a corner to go to
hide from human eyes. If animals even have a need to stay
one thing - the more strong it is among people, the club must meet this need -
ness. At the same time, there should be comfort, cleanliness, engravings on the walls, etc. p.
People who don’t want to talk need to have things to do at their fingertips.
which would give a person the opportunity to recover from fatigue: here it is necessary to decompose
albums with photographs from the best paintings, place checkers, lay out newspapers.
Newspapers can be given to read in the dining room so that they can be read while drinking.
tea during lunch.

An indispensable part of the club should be a reading room and a library.
theca. However; the club commission will misunderstand its task if it

`is content to arrange books on shelves and spread newspapers on tables, Such
the library and reading room will not become the center of very much attention. Of course,
that the library should be furnished as the best are furnished
libraries. Here they should stand in the openlkah of all kinds intelligent
dictionaries, reference books, recommendation catalogs, address-calendar, etc. n. On
There should be maps hanging on the walls, a city plan, recommended lists of books on
one or another question, etc. The reading room should also have a table with ink
and paper, which those who wish could sit down to make notes for themselves
from books or any notes. It is necessary that right there in the reading room you can
buy notepaper, envelopes and stamps so that you can write letters immediately.
There should be a shelf with newly published books and brochures, a shelf Also
open for free use by visitors. Of course very good
it will happen if trade in books and books is immediately opened, and it will immediately be
newspaper subscriptions are accepted. It would also be good if they hung in the reading room
addresses of all cultural and educational institutions in the region, advertisements for lectures
No. a PROLETARIAN CULTURE: > 25

tions, essays, film sessions and if the librarian gives
information on all these issues.

Next to the reading room there should be a room for reading aloud, at certain times.
spend hours reading the most interesting articles and newspapers. It’s good if you take on this matter
There is some kind of circle, the members of the circle will divide the work among themselves. One
will undertake to monitor foreign policy, another - economic life,
the third—by newly issued decrees, etc., and then, before reading this or that
another newspaper article out loud, they will make corresponding reports in the form of non-
big introductory words. Such reading aloud newspapers and joint discussion
what you read will attract a large audience and cause an exchange of opinions. At the same time
this will be an excellent school for agitators, ‘and in general it will teach the public
speak out, formulate your thoughts more accurately. It is very possible that due to
With the discussion of newspaper articles, the idea will arise about the need to discuss

This or that brochure or book. This will be done at certain hours.
Maybe there will be a need to listen to a report on this or another topic
or a lecture.

It is necessary to initiateactive circle nominated speakers from among itself,
maybe not very skilled, but who will gradually learn to do
good reports. Meanwhile, about a not particularly brilliant report may
A very lively debate broke out, which comprehensively covered the issue.

Such centers for the exchange of opinions are of enormous importance, and their organization
They need to be given the utmost attention at clubs.

But not everyone is and is not always interested in politics. You can read aloud not only
tazetas, but also poems and works of art, read by role, etc. p.
There should also be an organizational circle here. Here young authors can
read your works. Here the listener is close to the reader. And if artistic
reading is sometimes not inferior in power to depicting a given thing on stage, then at worst
In natural reading, the listener is somehow closer to the reader, between them he can always
an exchange of opinions will arise, which will often give the reader extremely valuable indications
nia. Theatrical performances are complex and require complex preparation, costs,
“A very small number of people actively participate in them, whereas in artistic
Many people can take part in feminine reading. This circle. bad
ecological reading can serve as an arena where very many
gee talents. :

Then the music club should be an indispensable affiliation
workers' club. '

Circle of persons; those interested in fine arts, studying
them, trying their hand at this area, etc. d.

It is important that all these circles, which may pursue very different
These goals were not closed, so that access to them was open to every member
club, so that the work of the circle would be visible to everyone, would captivate others, push
I would wake you up.

There are countless things that can be arranged in a workers’ club.

The center of gravity in the club should lie precisely in this active ‘work of circles’:
cov. Lectures, reports, film sessions, performances should be
only holidays that give new, richer content, new strength to this
daily active work of class membersuba. A club that unites
contains a whole range of the most diverse active groups of its members, never
will not wither or die out. It will be one of the stones that will be used for construction
great edifice of socialist culture.

N. Krupskaya.
26 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 4

All-Russian Union of Working Writers,

Not caring about one’s personal self, not protecting narrow professional interests,
but a deep awareness of the revolutionary creative tasks of his class guided
working-class writers to unite their scattered forces into orderly ranks in order
to forge yet another powerful means of socialist organization of the masses.

And therefore, when establishing its union, the cultural vanguard of the worker
class—worker-writers rejected the recipes of bourgeois ideology, fencing off
giving the artist the opportunity to participate with his creativity in the struggle and construction of new
forms of life and directing him to the search for happiness and truth in
cloudy heights.

Working-class writers who are organically alien to unnecessary abstraction in their creative work
honor, they based their association on their class principles and so
formulated the wadachi of the union:

1) take into account the general conditions of this moment in accordance with our authorities.
national. assumptions; ;

2) determine to what extent these conditions may contribute or pro-
to oppose the construction of such an organization as. All-Russian Workers' Union
sneeze writers;

3) what position can this organization take in the construction of new
life forms, and what role they can play in the fight for Rota opportunity
such’ construction, and

4) upon understanding the listed provisions, establish such principles of organization
unionization of the Union, so that the members of the Union, and with them the working masses, can demonstrate
maximum tension of their creative forces so that the activities of the Union with
in the very first days of its existence it was practically productive.

In response to this, they gave the following conclusions:

Regarding question 1:

The general conditions oblige all writers leaving the working environment to
standing on the class point of view, to the closestassociation for the purpose
supporting the gains of the revolution and expanding them.

Regarding question 2:

The general conditions of the moment are by their very essence, in their development
exclusively conducive to the establishment of the All-Russian Union of Workers
sneeze writers, and here's why: with

The Working Class with the entire history of its great revolutionary achievements
proved that as a matter of liberation of the working class and the poor peasantry,
likewise, the construction of new forms of life is a matter of his independent creativity.
creative efforts and his own hands.

Therefore, he strives for organizational completion in the All-Russian
the scale of a new form of labor movement—self-construction
class, “proletarian culture” through the creation of the All-Russian Proletarian
cult as a unifying cultural center.

But since the affirmation of revolutionary gains lies in the creation
ni! in place of the destroyed old forms of life, new socialist forms,
then this obliges the working class to use its creative powers to the maximum
low productivity. This can only be achieved if
if the ‘working’ class, following the basic methods of its independent class-
development, will take into account all its active forces and make the right
distributing them according to their special knowledge, skills and abilities.

The sooner the unification occurs, and then the distribution of forces, the more
The cause of the revolution, the cause of the socialist reconstruction of life, will benefit from it.

And since the revolution carried out by the organized class commands every
unit of this class to take its place and do its job skillfully, then decide
more precisely, she points out to the working-class writers that the matter of literature, scientific and blasphemous
feminine, and the press in general is his direct immediate business and he is obliged
No. 4 PROLETARIC CULTURE. 27

before the revolution, organize this side of life and build independent
through the creative efforts of the working class, new better forms, with a new socialist
ical content.

Regarding question 3, I

The role of the All-Russian Soybeanfor workers-writers as in the revolutionary struggle,
Likewise, the construction of new forms of life is grandiose, and it does not require proof
undertakings, and in remembrance of what has long been proven that all political conquests,
tions, all new forms of life that have been established are only strong when they have conquered
these and those for which they were conquered, by their internal content, organization
with the spirit of their spirit they respond to these conquests when these forms are revealed by
three of the newest person.

After all, if proletarian socialist ‘literature, political,
scientific and, mainly, artistic and fictional, in an accessible
popular presentation, was presented with sufficient completeness if cre-
styanetvo, the broad workers and the working masses in general were sufficiently supplied
it, then the conditions of the revolutionary struggle would be immeasurably easier.

And therefore our Union, as an organization designed to fill this
a colossal gap, destined to occupy an exceptional position.

Regarding question 4.

In order for the will to create among proletarian writers to be strengthened,
so that the working writers can immediately show maximum tension
of your creative powers, you need one thing: to prove that there really exists
demand for their creative work, that it will find a proper justification, what is
there is an organization dear to him, where he can freely bring the fruits of his
creativity, not embarrassed by his inexperience, where he will be spared the humiliating
conditions of dependence, on the tastes of individuals, editors, secretaries and
etc., where he will meet his comrades, one with him in spirit and class gender
Eugene:

We need our own editorial offices, literary laboratories and studios for love,
thrifty ‘nurturing of germinating literary works, and shoots.

Our efforts should be directed:

1) to collect literary material that meets class tasks
members of the revolutionary communist proletariat in particular because
laid the basis for the construction of proletarian culture:

2) On the conditions of the proletariancreativity.

3) For the fastest and most affordable publishing.

To achieve positive and quick results in this, it is quite possible for us
it is enough to use existing publishing machines at first
Proletkults, Soviet organizations and the Commissariat of Education.

4) To organize organs of widespread distribution.

As a result of these conclusions, the general meeting of workers and writers of Petrograd,
Moscow, Perm, Tula, Samara, Voronezh and other cities, held in
Moscow August 22 ‘1918,

decided:

On August 22, 1918, the All-Russian Union of Workers and Writers was established.

The Union aims to:

1) The union of all writers who came from the working environment, standing on
class proletarian point of view.

2) Creation of proletarian socialist literature, fiction
and scientific, corresponding to the ideals of the revolutionary communist proletariat.

The basis for the development of the charter of the All-Russian Union of Working Writers and
as guidance in the initial activities of the executive body of the Union at-
The following provisions are included:

1) Organization of wide publishing and widespread distribution
VA: sko’ literature,

organization of a lecture and propaganda bureau on military issues
and proletarian culture and in particular about proletarian literature, organi-
reduction of the literary studio, journalism courses and literary club.
28 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 4

3) Considering their activities inextricably linked with Proletkults,
The Union considers itself a single organization with the Proletkults, being part of its
literary departments; therefore, the central body of the Union exists
at the literary department of the All-Russian Proletkult, the branch of the Union—
at local Proletkults.

4) Material resources for publishing, acquisition and distribution
literature, to carry out the entire plan of literary endeavors
are collected from allocations for the literary departments of Proletkults.

5) Union funds for the formation of a special fund to provide assistance to its
members of financial assistance and onremuneration for official work specifically for’
The Union is formed from royalties and membership fees.
owls

6) Amounts of deductions, membership fees and standards for payment of author’s work
are developed by the Executive Bureau of the Union, and it also establishes cases
in which material assistance can be provided to a member of the Union, its size
and conditions.

7) To manage the affairs of the Union, an Executive Bureau is elected consisting of:
Sew man.

8$) The activities of the Union are controlled by the Proletkult Council or special
but appointed by him, the Audit Commission.

9) The members of the Union include writers who have proven themselves in literary
new work and those starting to write who came out of the working environment and stand as
in the field of political and in the construction of proletarian culture at the point:
from the perspective of the revolutionary communist proletariat.

Note. Proletarian intellectual writers standing on point
point of view of the revolutionary communist proletariat, are invited to
Union as employees who can hold responsible positions.

10) What does the Union Executive Bureau do? report at the All-Russian Conference
Proletkults' statements about their goals, objectives and principles of organization and business
sends its representatives to the conference in a number by agreement with the Organi- zation
nizational for convening a conference of the Bureau.

11) The Conference has the right to sanction the Union.

Convened in Moscow on September 15, 1918, the All-Russian Conference of Pro-
Letarian cultural and educational organizations for the establishment of the All-Russian
of the Russian Proletkult will undoubtedly welcome the Union of Workers-Writers as its
native organization in the general construction of the working class of its pro-
Letarian culture.

Vasily Ignatov.

Towards the convening of the All-Russian Conference of Proletarians
cultural and educational organizations”).

Abstracts of reports.
‘Workers’ cooperation and cultural propagation”,

T. Three forms of the labor movement—political, professional and cooperative
rational—they will lead us to the kingdom of socialism.

P. Work operation, except forpromoting the life of the working class and
teaching workers to rationally organize distribution also plays an important role
cultural and educational role in the working environment. Without cultural-educational

1) See No. 1, 2 and 3 of the magazine “Proletarskaya Kultura”.
No. 4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 29

Without further activity, cooperatives would turn into ordinary trading
enterprises would cease to exist as cooperatives. That's why co-op
tives and spend such huge sums on cultural and educational
work.

IT. But the cultural and educational work of workers’ cooperation, one of
the most inert and backward forms of the labor movement, has the character of “enlightenment”
workers, the nature of “cultural trade”, and not the creation and development of independent
body proletarian culture. At the first All-Russian Labor Congress
cooperation, a resolution was adopted on “enlightenment”, but not on proletarian
cultural construction.

GU. The Second All-Russian Congress of Labor Cooperation, at which
Under the influence of a group of delegates, the report “Proletarek” was put on the order of the day.
cultural construction and workers' cooperation", by the overwhelming majority
votes rejected the hearing of the report, without saying a single word about the culture
tour construction. : ь

U. Meanwhile, worker cooperatives, spending on cultural and educational
hard work using enormous funds and creating workers' palaces (Brussels
"House of the People"), workers' clubs, workers' publishing houses, courses, studios, etc. under.,
create a good material base for the ‘proletarian cultural construction’
government,

UT. The less connected labor cooperation is with other forms of labor
what movement and the more apolitical it is, the further away it is from the proletarian
sky cultural construction. }

UP. Those material means that the proletariat, as a consumer,
accumulates in their worker cooperatives, they must use them rationally.
called.

UPT. For this purpose, worker cooperatives should be involved in the Pro-
Letkults" to proletarian cultural construction.

]X. Members of the workers cooperativewe must move away from cultural trade
and “enlightenment” to the active creation of proletarian culture in the near future
with the participation of local “Proletkults”.

X. In addition to the general tasks of cultural construction, workers’ cooperation,
like trade unions, has in the field of proletarian culture
construction has its own special tasks, .

HT. Just as cultural and educational cells of production
The main organizations of the proletariat—trade unions—must be given.
main attention to issues of production culture, cultural and educational
ny cells of worker cooperatives, as consumer organizations, should devote
main attention to issues of consumer culture, Proletkults are in charge
mainly general work.

HI. issues of consumer culture, in addition to technical culture,
issues of arranging the consumer’s life on the basis of a new
proletarian culture, as well as the cultural impact of the consumer on the proletarian
production of consumer and household goods in relation to their hygienic
comfort, convenience and beauty. .
N. Vasilevoky.

The First All-Russian Confherence of Proletarian Cultural-
Educational Organizations opens on September 15 at 1 p.m.
in the premises of the Moscow Higher Women's Courses, Maiden Field,
Tsaritsynskaya Square.

Chairman V. Polyansky.
Secretary F. Kalinin.
PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

(quiet about iron.

There are groans in the iron,
Shackle ringing
And the cry of guillotine knives;
Prapnel bullets
Kulozhan splashed
On the edges of earthly boundaries.
There are calls in the iron
Ringing thunderstorms,
Cast iron mass movement;
Under the metal
It boiled up, rebelled,
It sparkled in the pools of the eyes.
There is purity in iron,
Callingness, radiance
Mimov's delicate eyelashes;
There are flute trills,
Smelled and burned
In the smiles of delighted faces.
There is tenderness in iron,
Playful snowiness,
In polished, love is advised;
Sunset scarlet,
Rush and fatigue
In the rusty fracture there is blood.
There is autumn in iron,
Cold blue
In rusty pine branches,
There is a sultry summer
Dressed like a mirage
Hotblossoming of spring.
There is a burning sensation in the iron,
Rebellion, sing-song
At the rocks of the broken wave,
Siren's tune
In the ebullience of foam,
Where bodies twist freely.
There is malleability in iron,
Agility and agility
There are calloused hands in dancing;
There is current in our veins,
In the jingling chisels,
Cupola welded circle.
There is strength in iron—
Raised giants
Rusted ore juice; b
'With the armored army ©“
Forward my brothers
Under the fiery banner of labor!
7 Mic.

Gerasimov,
PROLETARIAN CULTURE. WE

Spring plant.

Blows from the vervain horn,
White flame—ripe flax,
Snow steam swirls with foam,
The air is filled with singing.
Waves of siren calls,
Brittle powder of gears,
The forge is like a burning haystack,
Illuminated by the heavenly light.
Clusters of pink corals
Sculpts the solidifying slag,
In black stone crystals
Ogoykov expensive poppy. at
Thunderstorm is riddled with current
The flywheel threw up its wings,
In the sunny, high sky}
Blast furnace illuminated face.
The ringing of bronze, copper pines,
The steel shines blued,
Blue light flashes here and there,
Blouses with oily enamel,
A booming waterfall of drives
Suddenly it sparkles violently,
Throwing up to the glass vaults
Millions of strong hands.
Tepel silver dust
It sprung up and went out,
The bugle shakes off its wings
Golden sparkle. fluff.
The scream of copper and iron,
A bold whistle in the rafter branches,
Scream in the sheets of steel forest,
Songs of life, songs of strength.
How much ringing, how much singing,
The bird-spark—thought calls.
How I love you spring
Spark-flame plant! :,
Mich. Gerasimov.
32 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 7

Chronicle of Proletkult.

Moscow Proletkult.
(Report.)

The Literary Department was organized according to
after other departments. His work is just yet
getting better.

The studio opens on September 1, Task
her—literary education of the working-writer—
teacher and worker-reader,

The studio is divided into two subsections:

1. The General Education Department will
promote awareness of the working class
with the literary legacy of past eras.

Courses on Russian history will be given
literature from antiquity to the present day,
on the history of Russian theater and the history of culture
tours.

2, SpecialThe Department strives to
to compel listeners in the technique of literature
creativity, and help them master it,

In a special department there will be production
take classes on the theory of versification,
criticism and journalism and Russian poetics
skoy oral and written speech.

In practical classes from the beginning
common authors and journalists will be different
select the represented products pi-
satel workers.

The department prepares for
collections of poems,

print several

Department of Fine Arts with
from the beginning of its existence, used everything
effort to create a central exemplary
school that meets the tasks of the proletarian
culture. The Department had a response -
natural task—from a huge inheritance
bourgeois art and its technology
sketch out everything that might be useful
to create something unprecedented in the future
temple of new proletarian creativity.

From the very first collections of the College of Artists
nicks of the Department, it became clear that the absolute necessity
prices in parallel with the price discovery
organize a tral school of painting
propaganda of the ideas of art in broad public
letarian masses through lectures, from
giving brochures and reproductions and opening
local art schools.

But carrying out these tasks is involuntarily
slowed down due to lack of necessary
for this purpose the estimated funds and employees.

Fine arts in the bourgeoisie
This society was, unfortunately, in
much worse position than other art
arts—for example, music, theater, literature.
To an invitation from any of the above
studios could have a large number of personnel
servants of this art, of whom
it was easier to choose the right people, then
as in the pictorial and sculptural world
there were too few workers, and
those are partly busy up to their necks in different councils
national institutions, competitions and departments,
some were conscripted into the troops, etc.

This Department had to concentrate
devote all your energy to creating value
tral art school Prolet-

cult, an example of which could serve
a guiding light for a new folk
yoursrchestva.

In this area the Department is developing its
work.

Currently there are: 1) Master
Proletkult, where artists perform
work on free topics for the upcoming
exhibition this fall; 2) School of painting
and 3) School of Sculpture, where they work
groups of workers under the supervision of management
tel and with their direct participation.

Development of individuality in work
each student, observation,
observational learning, comparison, criticism, empathetic
attitude towards employee psychology, pop-
clear conversations and answers to questions of interest
questions - here's the basis for now
The department is working. Upcoming exhibition of works
artist! and Proletkult students will give
a visual concept of the achievements made.

Two more classes will open soon: drawing-
nia and traffic and general education.

Both are necessary
for workers whose thirst for knowledge and
the desire for great achievements is forced
put the matter immediately on the proper course
cell.

For this purpose, the Department is recently opening
library. ‚

The Collegium intends to proceed with
giving the magazine and reproductions from the artist's works
students and students. This magazine should
play a big role in spreading
ideas of new creativity, in education and development
the rise of a sense of aesthetics among the masses,

The Theater Department was organized on June 7
At the first meeting, a work plan was outlined
in the field of creating a proletarian theater.
which can only be born from among
the workers themselves, lovers of the dramatic,
art, Therefore, the task of the work of the board
there should be the creation of such studios; where
students could get acquainted with the cultural
tour of dramatic art, which, like
accumulated experience of mankind, was not it
is still available, but which is
a necessary prerequisite for further creative
technical work,

Hence, ‘the first goal was to familiarize.
amateur workers with dramatic technology
sky art. It was decided at first
months, in opening dramatic
go through the studios at least in general terms
the following subjects: 1) diction, 2) decla-
mation, 3) withprice exercises, 4) in
voice formation, 5) plasticity, then already,
when the students become somewhat stronger,
start rehearsing plays. What does the first have to do with
work on the play must be of character

more pedagogical than creative.
In the field of creative work, the board
laid down the principles for the development of the initiative

the workers-artists themselves, for the truly artistic
a work of art is always in
as a result of the search,

No. 4

As soon as the department began work,
applications from districts asking to open
they have a studio; On June 16, a meeting was convened
meeting of the board with representatives from the districts,
at which the organizational plan was approved
tions of studios. Comrade everywhere workers with live
the instructors were greeted with interest and joy
moat of the collegium. Despite the unfavorable
conditions for work (summer vacations" military
responsibilities of students, etc.), collegium
in a month and a half, 14 studios were opened, approx.
amazingly, with hundreds of people studying
workers in them. In some studios (like,
for example, in Basmannaya) there were already the first siek-
takli; as the first experiments they are, of course,
are not artistic in nature; but on
students themselves see with their own eyes how to
work and what to strive for. All instructions
Torah note that the studio members refuse
stage plays with 3-4 rehearsals - they want
work, because they feel that there is no creativity,
without serious and careful work, on
number is growing and the taste of students is no longer alive
‘satisfies that vulgar and inartistic
repertoire that fed amateur
circles before the start of the board's work. They already
the notorious “Convict” is not right, and they
dream of playing Sophocles, dream of “3 Dawns”
Verharna.

The Music Department aims to
giving the opportunity to the proletariat to semi-
learn music in the most accessible way
cal education, introduce him to art
to the best works of the best com-
positors and, most importantly, contribute to the identification
research and development of proletarian creativity
in the field of musical art.

Opening soon
music classes (piano classesano,
singing, strings instrumental, music theory and com-
positions). These classes will be placed
partly in the center, partly in the regions, so that
create the most convenient access for the wider
some ‘circles of the proletariat.

The choir section began the opening
in the areas of choir studios. In the studios
musical certificate is given, read
history of music, choirs are organized for
learning folk and revolutionary
songs and choral works of the best com-
positors. In total it is expected to open until
25 choir studios.

At the moment such is functioning

5. Scheduled to open in the shortest possible time
Currently there are 8 more choir studios.
The students of the studios consist exclusively
workers, 60-70 people in each studio.
Students show enormous* interest
and extremely thoughtful and serious attitude
getting to the point.

Section of folk musical instruments
cops began to open the indicator-
but a model studio and an instruction course
the ditch is with her.

Sunday, August 18, indoors
Proletkult was organized by Comrade Lyubimov
demonstration concert-report with the participation
folk musical instruments (domra)
and singer O; V. Kovaleva. Domra-instrument
ment, prototype of the balalaika. Lyubimov is confident
improved this tool: addition
The @&th string expanded the register

Proletarian Culture, No. 4,

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 38

and made it possible by combining domras
different systems, create an orchestra that can
perform a significant part of the repertoire
string orchestra.

Greatly performed in this concert
a number of folk songs in the harmonization of Rome
Sky-Korsakov, Lyadov, Mussorgsky and others.
was a colossal success, judging by the expressions
opinions, produced a strong report-
on the representatives present
workers' organizations, as well as representatives
makers of musical art. In view of the
great role of such concerts in the cause of music
musical education by the music college
it was decided to continue to organize similar con-
certs. Since training in folk in-
tools does not require special labor
and a lot of time, then is
possible in the near future to create
proletarian orchestras by region.

k, The Department has a commission on the organization
competition for proletarian and revolutionary
songs.

Last time in the Music Department
quite often they began to ask for assistance
activity in organizing choral and musical
studios from the provinces and suburbs. From-
business, meeting halfway, sends inst -
uktors. Currently being organized
music studio in Dmitrov and ho-
new studio—in the mountains. Zaraysk;

August 27, in the presence of the People's No-
Missar for Enlightenment, comrade. A.V. Duna-
Charsky, a meeting was held - Execution -
telny Bureau. They were invited to it
members of the Organizational Bureau. upon convocation
All-Russian Proletkult Conference
and the editors of the magazine “Proletarskaya Kul-
tour", representatives from the Department of People's
Education, District Councils, Professional
national Unions and other cultural-
educational organizations.

After his opening speech about the tasks
and the nature of the work of Proletkult, as well as
and 06 his relation to other Soviet
cultural and educational organizations,
Comrade A.V. Lunachareky will offer, and e0-
the battle passed (for 38, against 2) the following
resolution:

“A single proletarian class creates on
its victorious path, a number of organizations for.
diverse achievements of its great
and the complex goal of realizing socialism.

Soviet power is a class organ
policies pursuing, through dictatorship,
the goals of the general restructuring of Russia in social
istic spirit and protection of this work from
countless enemies. This task is lengthy
and colossal. Meanwhile, the proletariat is not
can stop even that creative work
his own, with which he creates a new class
content in science and art
and which in the future will unfold into a new
the soul of the new social order,

In its cultural creativity, it flies
riat is only taking its first steps, hurry up
to cover an area beyond our capabilities would be
here it is wrong, the scope of its activities
the proletariat in this regard expands
only as they maturetheir original
ny forces.

3
34 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

Soviet power, unashamed of complete
freedom of such organizations of the proletariat
first of all (Proletkult), must,
on the contrary, to create for him the most beneficial
a pleasant environment, giving him access-
taking away all the cultural treasures of the past,

Hence - internal unity and complete
consistency of the huge Soviet state
the legislative and local apparatus and its
cultural departments, on the one hand, and sa-
independence of proletarian cultural
organizations, artistic-scientific-creative
skikh, what Proletkult should be,

In the province.

The best teacher is life. That's why especially
voices are especially important and significant because
time line. Comrades in Ukraine
learned through terrible experience all the ‘horrors of the Bur-
zhuaz dictatorship and realized that, not ire-
having formed the whole world surrounding them,
they can’t free themselves, this little one
your experience and forced T. S. Brun from Khar-
kova.in the one-day newspaper “Worker’s Day”
cooperation", published in Kharkov on 4 August
thick and immediate. confiscated bourgeois
Zia, who supposedly loves freedom of the press,
write the following; "Creating your own
we need nulture to weaken
the strongest position of our enemy—his
spiritual domination. We are too few
paid attention to this issue, we were
too busy with practical work.
War, the collapse of the international, complete chaos
according to the power of the flight] IATA - all this is evidence -
it seems that until the proletariat
will be freed spiritually, can never be
full confidence that what he has won
will not be taken away or destroyed. Feudal
the world fell completely and irrevocably only
after the bourgeoisie liberated itself
and spiritually, when the Pope and the knight-
the state had to lose the most spiritual
charm among the broad masses. This one
the proletariat needs a historical lesson
Dimo remember, the author outlines the path to this
in the cultural self-isolation of the ‘proletariat from
the bourgeoisie (not its science and art); this one
the work must be organizationally and ideologically
related to worknd in the same field professional
national unions and political parties,
Noslednev sounds in independent Ukraine
mockery. That's why in Nkaterinoslat
a united cultural-pro-
illumination commission of cooperative workers
military unions and trade unions with very
broad program. Such is the power of things.
We focus our attention on this message most strongly.
special attention,

The process of proletcultic construction
the movement is also going on in Russia: So, the Smolensk Prolet-
the cult adopted its charter, which included
Znegen T. Knorin a number of important changes.
Following the model of the St. Petersburg Proletkult there were
creative tasks are more emphasized and
cro metoto ‚representation introduced only
organizations, not individuals, there are deep-
good message about the existence of Prolet-
cult in Orsha, Proletkult was created in Ko-
Logriva, Nostroma lips. His task
op put in every possible way to bring out the proletarian

No. 4

art, the main element of which is T. Chum-
Barov-Luchinsky considers humanity. Co-
The Palace of Proletarian Culture is being built with
4% studios: art (school and

efficient artists), music (school.
and a group of musicians), elegant words

activities (lectures and a group of employees in the publishing house

niyah); Theater (school and art group)

sets), All this is ‘correct, and next we

We consider this phenomenon to be completely unacceptable.

niem, namely; “Graduated from one of the studios

Palace of Proletarian Culture receive

diploma of a freelance artist and employee

all Palaces of Proletarian Culture." Time

giving diplomas, special titles—such a title

was given before by the conservatory - and thus introduce

misleading, we believe absolutely not

task of Proletkult

In the organ of Ivanov-Voznesensk - “Worker.
Irai" we have published a number of articles calling for...
to the creation and in Russian Manchester Prolet-
cult, a proposal was submitted to the Executive Committee
workers writers. In the meantime, it is being created there
temporary inter-circle commission for
coordination of work. From one place
Nerekhta district they write that it is not possible there
merge the existing two circles, so
like the proletarian for some reason does not go to-
meeting towards unification with the intellectuals.

We are switching to permanent work, increasingly
signs of life begin to appear
circles—these primary cells of our creations—
ical quests. So the circle of self-education
viya in the 1st Torodek district of the youth union ^
in St. Petersburg sets the task of studying literature
rature and identifying one’s own creative
sky attempts by publishing the magazine “Young
Proletarian." Smolensk Proletkult from-
winged a literary studio, details
about which we have nothing yet. Usually everything
organizations are now striving to acquire
with your organ. This forced’ “Petersburg-
skaya Pravda" to raise the question of the type of pro-
Tara magazines, Studying them led
the author to establish two types: some
serve to expand the base of Russian culture
tours, informing and introducing the culture of
needle (these are “Flame”, “Creativity”), which means
set purely educational goals; others
reveal only their own culture
tour (“The Future”, “Proletarian `Kul-
tour,” a magazine that Aztor calls
magazine of high value). In this from-
wearing are interested in the tasks that’ poses
our Saratov brother “The Crucible”:
“reveal, deepen, expand artistic
natural and creative instincts in the most
thicker than the population"

We have an interesting initiative in Perm
(we think that it could not have happened without a strong
influence of our Petrograd brother).
There is a study room for reading
on issues of professional knowledge. B
it contains information about all books
on these branches of knowledge available in Perm-
Russian book depositories, a kind of consolidated
catalogues. And those who want to study any
the question indicates here the book he needs,
and ‘the very next day it is delivered to
office The office is open in the evenings, which
it would be necessary to ‘extend it to everything’
libraries. Will remember how we once were
No. 4

I was struck by a message from a friend from afar
Cubans, that they have libraries from Havanna
closed for workers until 12 o'clock at night. Vo-
request for centralization of libraries and time
their discovery is extremely important, since from the right
his correct decision dependst real
availability to workers of many sources
knowledge. Therefore, it is impossible not to note
and the opening of the Moscow Tretyakov Gallery
their treasures for workers in the evenings,
One must think that this example will be followed
museums in Moscow and throughout Russia.

Most of the messages we see are
iro art studio: Smolensky Prolet-
cult opened its proletarian studio
fine arts. Its principle
is—complete artistic freedom
creativity. There will be no teachers as before
sense of the word. There will be no definite
programs in operation. In general conversations and
group exhibitions will be determined. character
ter and the spirit of proletarian creativity.. Sami
workers will create their own creativity. All this
yes, but we are afraid that this charming
the principle of freedom did not result in amateurism.
And there are concerns about this. Yes, on the first
friendly evening of poets and studios of Moscow-
of the Proletkult were heard from the side
some literary losers
calls for writers to move away from the collective
creativity ‚’ accompanied by camaraderie
self-criticism, into your own isolated world
poets. We understand that cry from the front
and remote provinces that we need already
and now fiery speeches. But for genuine
enthusiasm must be so mastered
form to be its master. And to this
leads a difficult path, and the masters can help us here.
just help.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 85

In Astrakhan, it was created with funds collected
among the workers, workers' theatre, whitewashed
produced by the workers. Smolensk creates freedom
nal proletarian theater. Even the Kronstadt residents
created an opera, but its repertoire did not correspond
lasts time (Ruslan and {Yudmila, Mayskaya
Night, Ivan Susanin, - the latter is probably
renamed “Life for the Tsar”), with
than. the message ends with the following
characteristic lines: “Let’s hope
that the fellow sailors themselves will take part
in the work of the commission by at least supporting -
maintaining order in the theater and will not allow
it turned out what was once in the workers
and cultural and educational clubs." Sa mo-
criticism is one of the foundations of proleTartar culture
tours.

Our upcoming conference calls
great interest. So "Smolensk News"
They published an extremely sympathetic article,
pointing out the international nature of our
proletarian culture. In Kaluzhekom Kommu-
Here we find a reprint of our poster.
Elections of delegates have already taken place in some places
for the conference: 5 people were selected in Smolensk
Loven: 1—from the council of the local Proletkult,
1—0t railway workers, 1-50“ red
army, 1-0 from Potelsoyuz and 1-0t row
small cells. A special one has been appointed in Ivanovo
conference of local circles for choice
delegates, ,

As always, we are finishing our review
an earnest request to our comrades to write to us,
about the holidays and everyday life of her cultural tradition
bots and don't give a damn about their form. ,
We are especially interested in how ideas
the life of your cells. {

Art. Krivtsov.

Bibliography.

“The Future” ‹// Roletarian and itchy-
Literary journal No. 5, 1918 Edition
Ietrogradsky. And roller cult.

We always pay great attention to
simey to the “Coming One”. This magazine. is underway
by the workers themselves and carried out with talent,

The issue begins with a poem by V. Ki-
Rillova "To the Coming Noet." With regular
uplift, strength, unshakable ‘conviction-
with fulness, chanting:

“The delights of battles, victories reaching marriage
And the horrors of falls and losses,”

the author is happy that he was given the opportunity to taste—

"From the cup of days covered with eternal glory,
And pour out rapturously in fiery songs
Their thoughts are proud, their trembling is majestic.”

Beautiful poem by the Originalist
"Woman." It is written in an even, smooth manner
calm tone; there is not a loud word in it
no false pathos, and this calm and mu-
vocal evenness gives the verse a certain
I have a conquering force.

,

(The originalist has neither regret nor
reproach ‘to a woman because she often
is a source of fall and pulls us into life
quiet, self-satisfied philistinism. On the contrary,
he calls us to believe that “the one who fell in breath
noisy life", and the downtrodden mother, and "the wife
with a submissive smile,” and the one that has already “stood up”
saw us on the path of social struggle,” our to-
comrades are equal members of society,

"I wish my dreams would soon bloom,
I wish the gloomy darkness would soon tremble,”

if only they could all breathe with proud strength
fighter. This is how the poet ends his poems.
Simply, without any deep spirituality:
analysis, timidly, but sincerely and vitally
stories written: “The Blood of a Worker”—
P. Arsky and “Unemployed›—G, Tulipa.
The first is described as “mustacheless and
ruddy, with protruding blue eyes,
good-natured and stupid Ivan Makhotoch-
Kin, the youngest soldier in the entire training
team", recapitulated the first days of the revolution
in Petrograd, He wondered why they
Liva ut workers-brothers, vaguely felt

3*
36

and the correctness of his behavior and, finally,
not for long. reasoning, with a feeling of relief
in the shower, together with the company, he went over to the side
rebels.

Tulin describes how unemployed Fedor
Vykhodtsev, former typesetter. satisfied with
in the basement of the flophouse an illegal printing house.
Neither the basement nor the bitterness of life weakens him -
energy and strength. When he was arrested and you...
sent from the capital, he, after three years,
a peasant's sheepskin coat, with a knapsack on his back,
runs from the link. back to the capital. After
long ordeals, with the help of his comrades, he
gets a place in the printing house and is free
devotes time to self-education. Kaza-
It was hoped that knowledge would give Vykhodtsev new and
the right weapon in the fight against untruth in life,
but it didn't turn out that way. One evening, maybe
turning back from work, he saw how drunk
man on a poorly lit street near a truck
tira ‘beat the woman. It was Asya-
foldovatsa, a long-standing inhabitant of the sub-
shaft And Vaska Pyzh, also a former
basement mate. "The persecuted one
the police, then the petty bourgeoisie, who were afraid
Worrying about his good, he hid in himself a lot of
ferocity, daring evasiveness”... “I am anar-
became a hist—a hooligan in their opinion.” "To
to reap in this filthy world, you must not
to know no one and nothing”... “And you sold out
capitalists, rich, vile bloodsuckers.
Eh... you,” he lashed like a whip with embittered
with a clear glance.

Fedor is not. survived this meeting, “Re-
became from the ashes, pulled out of the pit, not
could’ put up with each othersome lived in a pit.”
“He didn’t sleep all night—the next day
didn’t go to work,”

“I collected all my things and sold them. Exactly
he burned books in a frenzy.”

“To hell with everything... None of this is needed,”
he exclaimed: “It’s all a lie, a deception;
punishment is in suffering, in struggle.”

Ego suffering, once experienced, again
irresistibly attracted him, thirsting for “greatness”
whom asceticism." And he went “there...
to the barge."

We Russians are very familiar with these
moods. Fiction writers and journalists are not
little attention was paid to this point in
our social struggle. Now this one
the stage is passed forever. Everyone has already realized
that the way out is in great suffering and despair
arduous asceticism, and in active self-
rejected struggle with the old world, learning
the fathers of which we are in these “by
covered with eternal glory" days.

In the article “New Shoots” the author gives. re-
license for the “Literary Almanac”, you.
launched by the participants of "The Coming". Us
it seems that statements such as “nothing
poem, then the pearl of poetry,” go-
they talk about a superficial attitude towards loved ones
who cares, or unclear idea about
the pearl itself, The poems are bright and talented,
but not yet pearls. Approve last
means being too narcissistic.

The author declares with no small amount of pride,
that the things placed in the Almanac - or not
give way to Parnassian works
Ah, Maykova, or no worse than the best sketches
Mr. Zaitseva, This method of criticism is incorrect

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

\
m4

linen Comparison, for example, with Zaitsev
says that it has already been noted on the page
tsakh of our magazine, that on the story Additional
Tina was greatly affected by the influence of B. Zaitsev.
We need to get rid of him. We need to find ours
proletarian artistic flair, which
would make it possible to catch in the working environment
its collective-intimate, pass through
your creative prism and embody it in your
colors and music, and not imitate intellectual
ligents. What does the reviewer of “The Thing to Come”
scribble with special enthusiasm and as if
delighted, it must be placed in
minus,

Proofreading suffers greatly. Meetilliterate phrases are a clear result of
carelessness. This is unforgivable.

As always, we wish the magazine the very best
frontal distribution, pl

"Flame." Weekly public
scientific - literary and artistic -
illustrated magazine edited by
A, V. Lunacharsky. Nos. 16 and 16. Ed. Petro-
City Council.

In the first issue of our magazine we have already
wrote about the "Flame" and definitely indicated
for all its enormous shortcomings. Then we have
there was hope that the first unsuccessful steps
journal of the Petrograd Soviet, obviously
due to certain circumstances, abandoned
Nogo executive editor will be used
adjusted over time, and the journal is
meth of proper appearance and character. Unfortunately-
niya, we have to point out that time is very
little straightens the organ, Obviously, the “hunchbacked
Only the grave will fix it.” There are already six
eleven rooms. Now it's not in the magazine
tabloid poems and the same drawings
^artists from the closed “Satyricon”; but
there is still no definition
linear publication plan, which would give
magazine its specific face, Occasionally
I come across scientific articles by chance
themes, snatched fur from solid si-
worldview systems. Translations abound
from French, - true from the works
revolutionary character, but also serving
tea-selected and monotonous. A bit weak
poems. There is no need for stories like “Maria and
Zhanna" Bessalko, are not needed because
failed "love" neurasthenia ka-intellectual
litent to the broad masses, who are
the magazine has been read, is incomprehensible and uninteresting, and
the proletariat has no taste for feelings,
that border on pathology,

And only occasionally does one or the other stand out brightly
another article by a talented editor who
in a free moment, no, no, yes, he’ll remember
about his withered brainchild. Placed in No. 16
article dedicated to Vladimir Galaktiono-
I'm asking Korolenko about his 40th birthday
literary anniversary. With the inimitable
mastery of vivid words, full of deep
who's insight into the writer's soul, author
gives a living portrait of V. G. Korolenko, as
writer and publicista.

“Korolenko is the owner of a huge lit-
cultural talent: his log is extraordinary
musical and transparent, he is in the same
least and harmonious painter, subtle

‘
No. 4

psychologist, and affectionate humorist. On his pro
the words bear the stamp of eternity.”...

“Every story Korolenko makes readable
body is better, in each it will bring you closer to some
something distant and alien and will make it for you
brother, uniting both him and him in some
high. or touching; experience."
bb Korolenko could not stand the cruel
ties of revolution, inevitable in a bloody
fight, he moved away from. masses of people. But the author
believes that when the world con-
Congress of Labor Councils; victorious people
will say to the writer: “Our Father, dear apostle
pity, truth, love. Terrible time
when you, soft-hearted, ‘involuntarily grow-
reeling, it passed, the Flood subsided. Here you go, dove
 butter branch, go plant roses on
renewed earth."

A. Lunacharsky loves, loves deeply
Korolenko. A wonderful sketch about him, he is the most
lard about 15 years ago. This feeling is not
faded even now, although Korolenko wrote about

’he as a “former writer, and now a

missare."

No. 16 will be similar to all previous ones,

if we discard the cheeky article of the daring
V. Knyazeva. Who needs it, no one, na-

true, he won’t say. A. 0.

"Literary Supplement". No. 1. Izes-
stia V. Ts. I, K———August 22, 1918,
Moscow.

Not long ago, the editor of Izvestia placed
styled a very strict review of our journal
cash Moreover, his severity reached the point
that he most decisively ordered
the hall does not even place announcements concerning-
members of Proletkult. On the pages of the editor-
You will find advertisements in the newspaper he publishes
about venereal diseases, escaped dogs
kah, but in no case, for example,
0b establishment of the All-Russian Union
writers-workers, Vsli merchant's wife at Ostrov-
skiy faints at the word - la upel,
then, the executive editor of Izvestia
such a state comes with the word—Pro-
letkult. Of course, we are not at all sorry
editor; if we mourn, then only
becausewhat is reflected in the basin itself?
and excites the reader.

However, the Presidium of the Moscow Council
corrected the situation by “suggesting” to the editor
print ‘all Proletkult announcements.

The responsible editor conceived the idea of combining

a thread of working-class writers around you. And so.

broadcast announcements poured in and
advertising about Literary Supplements,

After long but futile waits,
The owner waved his hand in hopelessness,
Shiv that the case has burst. But no. "Diteratur-
New application No. 4 is ready:

Now it's our turn to criticize.

We invite the proletarian reader to
characteristics of a communist: stock up on patience
negation, as well as condescension; after all
You can’t be too strict with people who
who did not even have time to familiarize themselves with the
proletarian culture and under the heading “Proletarian Culture”
tour" releases announcements about Sha-'s tour
Lyapin, or about state performances
theaters You can't ask people
what they are not given.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

37

First of all, it is necessary to state
that in the “Literary Supplement” it is not ‘successful’
wanted to unite working-class writers. Pome-
the things contained there, poetry and prose, belong-
lie either to non-cultivators-intellectuals m, or.
misti ka m-peasants, but not workers,

There you will find Rurik's stories. Ivieva,
typical weak-willed, disorganized in-
intellectual, who, at the sight of a pregnant woman,
ditch not only can destroy its frail
world understanding, but also to create a ‘new, although,
perhaps, and no less confusing. Spirit of auto-
ritarianism, so alien to the proletariat,
blows over his poems,

Things of Oreshin and Yesenin through and through. pro-
imbued with the spirit of mysticism with which
all the collections they publish are complete and
to whom he has such a sharply negative attitude
every serious Marxist.

Yesenin, for example, goes straight to the camp
reactions. Without any reservations, he, along with
church clergy, to the joy of all black
and the white brethren, assures that in the next world
much better than here on earth.

Are you, readers, not animals? Good, yes
read it, but please, calmly, these
lines;

"My brothers, people, lYudi,
All of us, all of us someday

We will be in those good desolations,
Where the Milky Way is trodden.
Don’t feel sorry for those who have left,
Leaving every hour

There on the lilies of the valley blooming
Better than in our fields."

- But this is unacceptable!

We completely agree with you, reader,
but we will remain calm and continue
reap your business of building Proletarskaya
Cultures. With such things we have already become
nodded - probably many times they collided
we're moving. We knew about them, foresaw them.
Haven’t you, for example, read Izvestia
Moscow Proletarian University"? .
There are not such pearls to be found there,

- No, all this must end;
there is a limit to everything, we must not allow
from the pages of the Soviet press spread
all kinds of nonsense, +

Completeness. Two or three such “Literary
Applications", and working writers will understand
what's the matter. Class consciousness and just even
instinct will always help them figure it out.

V. G-b,

"Creativity". "Literature, art,
science and life. No. 4. August 1918 Edition
"Izvestia of the Moscow Council."

The material has been selected. somewhat monotonous
however, this number compares favorably
from previous topics; that poetry and prose
belong to working-class writers who are all
bolder and more talented perform in the literature -
tour field. To make deposits more confident -
to create the building of a new culture, we must carefully
collect and unite all Prolotarian creation -
quality, Only under this condition will we be able
trace the development of class psychology,
looking for elements of the eternal in the collected.
“Creativity” begins to group around
themselves of Moscow poets and writers-workers
38 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

sneeze; if the editors succeed in this, then it will be
her sick servant.

What is more interesting in this issue,
It should be noted “Childhood”, a story by Eve,
Eroshina. Undoubtedly, the author will take a certain
a special place among his fellow writers
tel. Unfortunately, I. Eroshin is still
undecided in his moods. Almost
in all his things, to one degree or another,
one can feel the deer worldview of the villagers
sky, flying into the experiences of the mountainsOdsky
worker, And this breaks the artistic
integrity of the image, splits the impression and
downplays the organizational role of art,

The story was written using a unique technique
"Tunnel" VB. Nikolaeva, It’s even hard to say
I mean, what’s more here: your originality
new, or imitative, inspired by another
by the same authors. In any case, a peculiar
quality of writing style, with sharp strokes
or strokes, as artists say -
painters - it is obvious, and it is necessary to note -

go wo.

There is a poem in the issue by V. Ale-
nsandrovekogo, very young gifted
a poet who promises to give an original
in form and deep in content, in it
He has a lot of strength and sincerity
your artistic face.

The poem is beautifully and figuratively written.
by V. Kazin “Honey’s Savior”/

There are articles in the magazine devoted to
questions of proletarian culture. That. K. Ma-
Linin in Otatya “Bourgeois and Proletarian
science” quite correctly formulates the
dachas of the proletariat when he says:

“To quickly free ourselves from the ideological
influence of the bourgeoisie, renounce the bourgeoisie
new method of thinking through restructuring
science, introducing into it a proletarian point
vision and proletarian understanding of science,
as an organizing result of social
labor process—this is the next problem
dacha." ;

In the article by K. Zalevsky “Public Humanity”
skaya culture" affects a number of! interesting
questions, but the main question 9 is that
such is proletarian culture and universal human
chesiyaya, not allowed. -

In one of the nearest rooms we
We dedicate a special article to this issue;

Dorot magazine—2 rubles, 25 kopecks. Its format
the great ones are completely inconvenient for the worker;
the book has to be folded, which is why
provide illustrations, and the magazine itself is purchased
the wrinkled, worn look melts away. A. 0

Poems.

Vladimir Kirillov,
W e-

1914-1918, Publication of P Roletvult.
trograd ‘

Petrograd Proletkult intensively
develops its literary and publishing
activity. In addition to the magazine "Coming",
Almanacs, he publishes the “Library of Pro-
letkult"; in every book there will beco-
branes are products of one author and this will give
the opportunity for the reader to more clearly present-
to shape the appearance of a particular writer.

Poems no. Kirillov are
the first book. It divides it into three
parts of “The Dawns of the Coming” “City and Lyrics”.

No. 4

As a preface, the author placed one
from his ‘best poems’,

“Y shared these songs of loved ones joyfully
new centuries
unembraced
gorodon...

I shared these songs. gold

I'm coming-

the bottom

In the noise of factories, in the screams of steel, in the anger
7 nom rustle of belts,”

These lines immediately show us the source
peak of inspiration and to a certain extent
predetermine. the nature of the interpretation of topics.

In the first series of poems “Dawns”
Coming" the poet characterizes the work
what class, its role in society, its power
society.

In the thick whirlwind of fire-faces

“We are countless, formidable legions of labor.
We have conquered the spaces of seas and oceans
and sushi,
With the light of artificial suns we lit
cities,
Our proud people are burning with the fire of uprisings
souls",

In another poem the author expresses his thought
enhances it even more. Enthusiasm and faith
the creative power of labor is snatched from it
fiery chest words:

“We, the workers, can do anything.
Let's disturb the depths of the world,

We will get everything with the power of power,
Let us comprehend everything with passionate thought:
By the will of proud labor

We will build cities

Greg 'captivatingly beautiful.'

The old world, in its animal fear for
his fate, then trembles in impotent anger,
then arranges counter-revolutionary fences
thieves, then under the guise of protecting culture and their
boda curses the “coming boor,” according to the roof
to that expression of Merezhkovsky.

In the eyes of a well-fed, smug world
exploitation and profit, accustomed, standing
In power, to command the masses,
the poet throws out menacing words:

“They thought he would appear in glitter and glitter,
Gentle, blissfully gentle,

And he, like fiery lava,
The many-faced, rebellious one has come...

He knows that the old world will not give up its
him he without a life and death struggle;
he knows that the uprising is terrible, bloody
cast, bequeathed by history. And he calls to
him, addressing the proletariat in the great
convinced tcreative force of the revolution:

"When your rebellion thunders,
And your sword is red,
Sparkling in the smoke,
`It strikes enemies,—
He, killing and destroying,
Another beautiful
Peace. creates",

In my creative anticipation that
international predatory imperialists, fi-
financial and industrial kings will not be able to
calmly bear the coming to socialism

E:

Tossian Revolution and, fearing the approaching
the hour of their reckoning, under ‘different
threadlogs, they will try to throw a dead
I’m flying on a working class plane, the poet is calling the passenger
Tariat: .

“Go, thunder the rebellious thunderstorm,
Tender spring
Way above the world.

The Holy News of Liberation,
Appreciate the fall—
Bring it quickly."

In his Verkharn calls, “kill-
"Vaya, create" ‚the author mourns the cruelties
inevitable struggle. He realizes that it is dirty
the future poet will stand in disbelief in front of many
"with skill and with an offended heart:

"I know much of the darkness of our years
Your sensitive hearing will involuntarily offend,
You won't find the answer to many things,
What worries and torments us now—
But there is one thing you will bow to...
Now it’s rebellious passion, now it’s the riot of the proud
strength
To quickly tear off the covers of darkness,
Bring closer the day illuminated by love.”

This is the poet in The Dawns of the Future. Stormy,
rebellious, true to the ideals of his class,
ready to fight and die for the future
"Tomorrow."

(With less expression and even a fraction
calm contemplation, sometimes twitchy
melancholy, Nazisan cycle of poems
"City". Outskirts street, barrel organ outside the window,
“a living stream of lines of horses, trams
and motors", spring in the capital, spring li-
ven - all this passed through the poet’s soul.

Written in calm and even tones
"Lyrics". She is not botata with her themes, her images
not new - one feels imitation, there is
sentiments alien to the proletariat, And this
quite natural. The area of lyricism is
area of the future. The proletarian poet still
he conquered, History made him great
and powerful so far in the field of social
topics But writers should not be embarrassed by this.
Lam-workers. The future is ours.

There is no doubt that “City” and “Lyrics” are
written much more accurately than “The Dawns of Grya-
d"Whoa." The spirit of revolution blows over them
every burning line.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

39

The book costs 1 rub. 50 k., having only
48 pp. It’s expensive even today
at times. It should not have been published
nia for 3 rubles. There is no need for this; glazed-
paper, suitable for trading
catalogs, moreover, do not give the book
grace. p.l.

V. Fritsche. “/1roletarian poetry. Publishing house
tion of Dennitsa. Price 1 rub. Moscow. 1918

At the moment, when the working class,
despite the enormously unfolding
lytic struggle, shows great intelligence
res to issues of proletarian culture and
in particular - proletarian poetry, brochure
In Fritsche, of course, it will sell out quickly.

Unfortunately, the reader will not find in it
the necessary answers to the questions that concern him;
the author does not speak about the essence of proletarian poetry
said neither. in a single layer.

He introduces us to the literature of England,
France, Belgium, Italy, Germany and Russia
these,—with literature that raises questions
questions of labor, life and struggle of the worker
class, but does not yet make her proletarian.
“It doesn’t matter that the authors of many
my. in the brochure of poems—authentic works
barrels. That's not the point. When we say
about proletarian poetry, then we first of all
We are looking for in it that spirit of class solidarity,
collectivism and free creativity
work that will serve as the basis for the future
socialist society.‘ ;

The absence of a basic point of view, with
which one could approach this or
another work, does not allow
classify the collected materials
material and use it © large
results. Whether a certain point of view
research, it would be possible to find out in what
things reflected the working psyche, in which—
‚peasant or worker-peasant, ka-,
some things can be classified as socialist,
revolutionary democratic and simply de-
mocratic... It's all confused.

Despite the above-mentioned inconsistencies, we ur-
We recommend reading the whole brochure by V. Fritzsche
to anyone who is interested in this issue, C0-
brane is an interesting material thatmaybe-
give me a lot to think about.

The brochure was published carefully and cheaply, -
nice, although some kind of ridiculous vignette
coy, . V.-G-b.

The editors of the journal ask you to send them work journals for review.
and eborniki proletarian writers and poets. at

Publisher -

Editor -

Org. Bureau for convening the All-Russian Federation. Conf. Prolet, K-.Ave. Organizations. Editorial board.

Vterzya State Printing House" Trekhigudny, 9,