Workers of all countries, unite!

>

Proletarian Culture.

MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
Organ Center. Committee of the All-Russian Propetkupt Council.

Publication of the State Publishing House

Editorial office and office address: Moscow, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 27-38.
Reception with the editorial secretary every day from 11 to 1 p.m.

No. 6. February. ‘``. 1919

A
9 CONTENTS: International resolution and proletarian culture, V, Kerzhin-

to
4c,—0About ileology, F. Kalinin.—Next questions. V. Polyansky, - Methods of Gva’s work

"Proletkult" V. Kerzhentsev.—Theory and practice. T. Sedelnikov.—Plan organi"
tions of Proletkult, - Pgedmestya. Verse, M. Rubinstein. — Chronicle of Proletkult:
vp St. Krivi p cult..prosv, organizations: - Bibliography
fiy: “Proletarian collection” V, /Lolyansky, -ch “Messenger of Life”, V, Kunavin - “Grya.
Peeling Culture", 1/7, L,-zFirewing Plant". A. O. -S, Malashkin, “Muscles”, .

A. O.—S. Yesenin, Transfiguration, V, G-P., Oreshin, “Red Rus'”, 2, G-p,
Che S. Sredinsky, the foundations of newspaper singing", M, M. - "Zarezo Zavodov, V, Polyansky, -
RA *World and Man", /1, L, and

International revolution and proletarian culture.

The creation of proletarian culture must take place in the international
scale. In contrast to the old culture, which developed on national
‘on a basis within individual states, proletarian culture will
happen on a purely class basis. She breaks with the national in them
general proletarian, i.e. ultimately universal human tasks, it sweeps away
borders and watersheds for the sake of uniting all workers. Competition
separate national cultures is replaced by close, friendly co-creation
of the proletarian masses to develop a new culture. World proletariat
unites its creative efforts in the name of this great cultural task.

It would seem that the very nature of identifying active areas of culture
contributes as much as possible to the joint creativity of individual nationalities
even during the period. bourgeois domination. The language of music is international,
scientific data does not bear the imprint of the country,where were they obtained, works
poetry and literature are easily accessible to people of different nationalities, archi-
tectural and picturesque monuments find connoisseurs in different countries,
And, of course, even bourgeois culture tended towards internationality,
since it was a reflection of the ideology of the dominant everywhere
class, since the capitalist process of production itself took
international character. at

But bourgeois culture was at the same time being torn apart,
thanks to the characteristic tendency of bourgeois society directed towards
selfish isolation of individual states. The renunciation of the bourgeoisie
individual countries to be the first in the world and to subordinate the whole world to their economic
logical, and, consequently, cultural ‘influence, naturally gave rise to
embittered and ferocious struggle between peoples and vicious competition
their cultures. England declared everything that 'came from Germany' to be rubbish,
France mocked English culture, America looked on
on the achievements of Russian culture.

So the tendency of bourgeois culture to be united and international
was weakened and reduced to nothing, thanks to this characteristic ‘contradiction

Z

2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 6

“

capitalist society—mutual competition, struggle for primacy.
Even the work of the proletarian masses on their culture bore the burden of
although the imprint of selfish isolation and national spirit, which is bright
appeared during the war years. <

To lay a solid foundation under a new culture, the proletariat
work has to be done anew to recreate the International and history
a new unification of the working masses around common slogans. New international-'
new unity is created under changed conditions—under the thunder of a grandiose
socialist revolution. "Only the destruction of the capitalist world
will provide a solid basis for the new unification of the forces of the international proletariat
and work on proletarian culture.

It is characteristic that the first conscious work of this kind was begun
but to a new plan and with new tasks in Russia, a country with a low overall
culture. “Cultural Europe” does not yet pay such attention to these
tasks precisely because the main issues of the struggle for
power and economic dominance. }

Before the proletariat can begin intensive work on
his culture, he must seize power and establish his iron
dictatorship. Only after the destruction of bourgeois rule and the beginning
socialist construction, when all areas of life are transformed into
new grounds, unlimited opportunities will open up for work on
proletarian culture. == and

The world revolution that has begun is unfolding in such a grandiose
in such a way that, apparently, the time is not far off when in most countries
“these necessary prerequisites for proletarian cultural
creativity.

Even six months ago, the enemies of Soviet Russia mocked more
whist slogan, which directed all work along the path of international social
listist revolution, Not only bourgeois ideologists, but even persons
calling themselves Marxists (“Mensheviks”) and socialists (“6-rs”), from
they secretly mocked Lenin's forecast, which predicted a world revolution,
as the inevitable end of the war® Now, after the German revolution, these
skeptics, completely forgetting about their myopia, begin to defend the new
theory, asserting that the revolution captures only countries #0poor,
bypassing the winning countries, i.e. in this case the main comilot
imperialist powers led by America and England.

However, undoubtedly, this time too there will be skeptics. bad
predictors. The world revolution is coming in giant strides, and quickly
the path is cleared for the 'victorious march' of the proletariat.

Autono-German revolution, far in the unfinished form in which
she is now (with the “Uchredilka” and Ebert, with the union of social traitors
and bourgeoisie), had an exceptional influence on the “unleashing” of the proletarian
struggle in Europe. . }

Two of its results have already had a noticeable impact. Before everythinghim
ONR, greatly improved the position of the Soviet Republic.

the external strengthening of the Russian Socialist Republic is significant
significantly increased the chances of world revolution, as it gave new strength
the country where the proletariat first came to power. It was even more significant
the impact of the German revolution on Europe. The ideas of Bolshevism, having conquered
soil in Germany, began to spread to neighboring small and large villages
zhava. And if European socialists could help form Soviets in Russia
look incredulously, then a similar process in the page of high culture
unwittingly gave rise to analogies and generalizations. It became clear that
the struggle of the proletariat for power and the dictatorship of the proletariat are truly
next historical tasks.

“Lately we have noticed that the revolutionary ferment has taken
especially strong forms in the most conservative country—England.
„No. 6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 8

“now, contrary to expectations, it is she who is most susceptible to revolutionary
explosions. Ireland has declared its independence and is ready to fight for it with
weapons in hand, In India, South. Africa and Canada are increasingly giving themselves
know the separatist aspirations for autonomy that threaten to collapse the empire
to pieces. at

In France and Italy, revolutionary ferment is intensifying, both in
the army and among the working masses. Even in neutral countries, less
affected by the war (Holland, Spain, Sweden) workers' struggle for anger
takes the form of armed uprisings. In the most “invincible” America
Rica, which became rich in the war, councils of workers' deputies arise, and
the flag of communism flutters,

These revolutionary tendencies encourage the imperialist rulers to
<You must exert all your strength to fight against “Bolshevism”, i.e. world re
revolution. It is for these purposes that the “League of Nations” is created - this imperialist
‘trust, It is precisely this task that the “yellow international” social-patriot-
Comrade, who united all the forces of the traitors of the working class at the Congress in Bern.

But the course of events undoubtedly shows that international re-
revolution becomes the fundamental fact of the moment. Complete victory of the proletariat
over your enemies is a matter of the coming years. Socialist construction
<will soon develop on an exceptional scale, The path of the nearest lot is clear,—
he will give the proletariat not only power, but also transfer into its hands all the mathematics
real opportunities for creating your own culture—an instrument of production,
universities, museums, libraries, schools, book publishing, etc. '

In the near future, proletarian culture will truly be created
letariat of all countries as a single, integral culture of a new class. But also
Now we can prepare the ground for this future joint work
bots. First of all, of course, it is necessary to establish ways of mutual rapprochement
and familiarization, It is necessary to exchange accumulated experience, let know about the achievements
chickpeas, outline general tasks. It is necessary, for example, to familiarize our Western-
European comrades with the work of Russian proletkults and with the achievements
their successes,

We must also obtain material from Western European workers about
‘new things that have recently been done and planned in European countries in the field of
prozhetarian culture. Of course, now in this case our path lies
there are many obstacles of a purely external nature, but we can already prepare
to create such a rapprochement between Russian proletcults and similar work in Europe.

Undoubtedly, it will be possible to easily come to an understanding not only regarding
general tasks of the work, but also the general methods by which it will be carried out
“to linger. There will be a wide exchange of past experiences here. Plays that
chose work circles for their productions, perhaps they will be entirely suitable
and to us. Poetry of our proletarian poets translated into foreign languages
languages will be close and understandable to Western European proletarians. Tasks in
areas of science will completely coincide.

On ryatsu with the development of methods for combining all the work on the proletarian
Russian culture will probably have to pose a number of problems about easing
cultural communication between workers of all countries. The revolution destroyed
will close the outposts and borders, but onuntil it will destroy other obstacles,
polished between peoples over past centuries. For example, you will have to think and
© international language as a new cultural conquest and technical
means of mutual communication,

The further the world revolution goes, the wider the field of
is purified for proletarian culture, and the more grandiose its tasks will become,
The course of events makes us think that the successes of the socialist revolution
in the near future, new opportunities for employees
proletarian culture. The question of creating an “international proletkult”
“comes to the turn of the day.

V. Kerzhentsev.
KE
4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 6

0b ideology

2 > y

Socialist development presupposes planned organization
to accurate accounting of what is produced and distributed. The power of quietness in general
In the post-conventional development, step by step, must give way to power
consciousness, control and regulation, The most difficult side of accounting
social life, this is cultural construction in its educational
creative part. In conquering the 5th* region we will meet enormous advan-
obstacles - in its small form and certainty and in its nature, not
allowing real weighing and measurement, Everything on the farm is amenable,
arithmetic accounting in terms of weight, extension, content. To the area
cultural and educational take into account views, worldviews, customs,
norms and morality are a very difficult matter. And yet refuse to overcome
We don’t have to account for this aspect—socialist construction is a
presents the requirement as urgent.

Considering everything, we must also take into account the power of everyday life. The proletariat in Ka-
pitalastic society is under the rule of bourgeois life. Power
this one is great. Fighting it and clarifying its influence on the proletariat will help
to illuminate for us the role of ideology in the process of development of the labor movement. Before.
We face this task as an urgent requirement of the moment, from the solution to
The ability to find the correct
ways of culturaloh the work of the proletariat. Now that the socialist stroma-
government is concretely, actually carried out in life, we can no longer
limit ourselves to the general provisions of Marxism, that social being determines
divides social consciousness and that the mode of production is the basis of the ideological
gical superstructure.

These provisions, of course, continue to serve for orientation in general
social class struggle, to establish the basic revolutionary lines
labor movement. We could be sufficiently guided by them,
so far we had to outline common paths and solve practical issues
general fundamental importance, and to that extent, perhaps, there was no special
needs for their development and detailing. Now the proletariat produces genes
central construction of the entire public building with all its ramifications,
and labyrinths. In this case, limit ourselves to the measure of the old arshin, with
with the help of which it is not possible to take into account all the accuracy
the smallest concrete manifestations means marking time in one place, not
moving forward to the starting point, you need to go to the tools:
there is a finer caliber that could take into account contradictions and
the vagaries of social life in its living construction.

In this regard, the question arises of more accurately taking into account the role of ideology,
about its significance as a certain factor of social development.

Karl Marx showed the origin of ideology from the material factor -
production method, labor processes; but he didn't manage to install more
its exact and specific meaning or as a certain resistance force
when ideology has frozen in the form of a norm, custom, rule, in the form of a definition
divided idea in a painting, literary or musical work,
or as a force expressing the impact on social development embodied
in one form or another of a socialist-revolutionary idea,

It should be noted that we have more or less accurate accounting
and the material factor itself, the element that makes you horribly
stick to yourself, which is a dead tongueom dictates certain human
relations of social life and in which it disciplines people. These questions
confront us as inevitable and necessary on the path of socialism
construction with all its complex mechanisms. We can't step over
through them, because we do not want to swim in our struggle with our eyes closed.
‘

„No. 6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE 5

th

and poke, like blind kittens poke, at all objects lying on the way

their movements. We strive to consciously master the process of social

new restructuring, and this requires us to solve this problem. :

If I had to define revolutionary and socialist
‘the proletariat of a given country, guided by the direct meaning of the fundamental
provisions of Marxism, then we would have the following conclusion: the more developed the
capitalism of a given country, the more acute the class contradictions should be
and the more revolutionary, and therefore the more socialist, the proletariat is.

This is how it actually is from the perspective of revolutionary history.
socialist development as a whole, in its full extent. This provision
necessary and three general historical coverage of the working
movements. But it would be great naivety on our part if we
just as straightforwardly and simply took this position as a guide in
questions of tactics, to determine = illuminate our practical steps
every given moment. Unfortunately, from the primitiveness of the simplified language
Many of our closest comrades are not free from mania. In fact
A rather superficial acquaintance with the labor movement of Western Europe
and America, where, despite the development of capitalism, the labor movement
has a very dubious revolutionary character, but... dominance of opportu-
nism and social compromise is beyond any doubt.

The best way to find out the reasons for this contradiction is to use
“The formation of a picture of Western European life. proletarian.

o We believe that for this purpose the position is most suitable
French worker who occupies a middle positione among the flight-
riev of developed capitalist countries both economically and
cultural level. The entire life of the French ‘worker’ provides a typical
sheer philistinism. He is a slave to the situation and prevailing conditions, the power of the conditioned
ty reigns over the French worker, and this is promoted by all means
bourgeois system. The average French worker is almost unthinkable without grain.
wardrobe and a number of other furniture accessories. This
knitting to a mirrored cabinet, as a French need. worker,
Homeowners support us with all their might. They will forbid letting disabled people in
to apartments without a specified quantity and quality of furniture.

Despite the lively and active nature of the French worker, life
its strictly measured and devoid of surprises. Its expenses are strictly calculated.
‘anas and turn around in invariably established habits. It gives him
the ability to regulate his remnants, which nurture hope in him
achieve, after a certain number of years, the ideal of honor for every French
of a worker - to become an owner. From this stems a special love for
money. The French worker only in rare cases refuses super-

lesson work, despite the fact that it is paid in the usual way,
as during normal working hours.

On a holiday, on a day of rest, he goes with his wife to take a promenade, a walk,
He usually goes to one cafe he always likes and sits for hours at the table.

nan wine or coffee. This is repeated without any special changes or variations.
every day of rest. In his work, he respects his master, siecial
profession, and does not like to change it.

Apart from newspapers, he rarely reads anything, and always the same one, most often
bourgeois. These and other little things regulate the whole life of a Frenchman.
<whom the worker. Relative security consolidates the established
moldy swamp of bourgeois happiness and protects it from socialist
ideas are like armor. | \

The given example of the situation of Western European laborwhat shows-
Vast that the ideology of the current way of life’ fetters and creates inhibitory pre-
fifth anniversary of the development of class contradictions and delays the formation of a new

ideology; that ideology that would correspond to the already fully formed

apimeya to the objective economic conditions of the method of production, History
`

6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 6

the development of society is grist for our mill, the direction of its path leads”
towards socialism, but without active and conscious intervention in practical
the process of formation of the social system, the proletariat moved
too slowly towards its ideal. During its movement, capitalism
accumulates poisonous fumes in the form of ideological illusions that
attract the consciousness of the working class, and this causes delays in the working movement.
Negotiations become too protracted and painful. Only the sharpness of the
the development of class consciousness will help the proletariat to free itself from the dope.
outdated ideologies and break cunningly constructed bourgeois networks,

European Championship

In our article “Ideology of Production” we point out that in class
society simultaneously live and influence the formation of human
eternal consciousness ideological layers located in a number of floors,
uniquely intertwining and connecting with one another. Naturally, that"
the most influential ideology in terms of prevalence given the data.
historical conditions turns out to be the one that belongs to the dominant
to the next class. In a capitalist society it is so dominant. class.
is the bourgeoisie. She uses the coercive apparatus of political
power and, with the help of this apparatus, spreads its ideology throughout
nooks and crannies of social, family, and individual life.
Systematic and forced dissemination of ideology when available.
various forms of backward production makes it possible for the bourgeoisie
poison and darken the consciousness of the most dangerous and merciless
enemy - the proletarian. In addition to conscious influence on the part of the bourgeoisie.
per spanriat, this task is also facilitated by natural factors. The proletariat itself’
formed from an amorphous numerous peasant layer with all the characteristics
data from petty-bourgeois psychology, with which there is significant
The letariat has not yet had time to break. I would like to provide significant assistance to the bourgeois
influence on the proletariat is exerted by petty-bourgeois ideologists who have internalized
revolutionary phraseology and some socialist principles. Their.
‘the influence on the proletariat was consolidated by the fact that they began
their activities at a time when socialist principles were
verbal propaganda, expressed in fencing and juggling with these
principles, without a direct and clear attitude to life. When did it come,
time to implement socialism, then objectively these gentlemen turned out to be.
traitors to socialism. b

All this suggests that in our struggle for socialism we must
rely not only on the material development of production, which has
is given spontaneously in such a way that it inevitably contributes to
in its own way towards the implementation of socialism, but also on our activity, manifesting
which consists in the systematic, planned destruction of the old, outdated ideological
logy. No matter what the bourgeois influence on ideology is dressed up
proletariat, in uniform. whether art for art’s sake or “pure science”, for-
it is up to the real socialists to be mercilessly and harshly exposed.
,their. Any compromise position in the field of ideology supports the influence
influence of bourgeois ideology on the proletariat, and thereby it will be criminal
in relation to socialism. ]

Let us remember the pre-war period, when the Mensheviks, these representatives of the small-
bourgeois opportunism, called on us to follow the masses and fought
against the idea of actively influencing the masses. The Bolsheviks were apt in their time.
Then they were branded with the name of tailers. In contrast to them, the Bolsheviks
called to raise the masses to themselves. They carried out these revolutionary tactics

‚consistently until the end. In the first revolution of 1905, the Mensheviks

calledand to compromise with the bourgeoisie, and at the moment of reaction they called for leaders
to liquidate our party—the Bolsheviks mercilessly exposed them to everyone.
stages of party struggle,
No. 6. PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 7

^x The revolution we are experiencing has confirmed and justified the amazing
the foresight and correctness of the general tactics of the Bolsheviks. The sharper and more defined
The Bolsheviks more effectively exposed the petty-bourgeois nature of the Mensheviks
-and the more sharply we differentiated ourselves from them, the more we contributed
the most correct education” of the class consciousness of the proletariat.
the great service of the Bolsheviks to the revolution is that they made it easier to fly
riatu liberation from bourgeois influence and these `beams contributed
quickly survive the illusion of cooperation with the bourgeois classes in the first
the initial period of the revolution, a very clear and vivid confirmation
We can find our thoughts in Western European and American contexts.
development of socialism, which at the same time clearly reveals the role and significance
ideologies in life. FOR

The long parliamentary period served for Western European and @&me-
the Rican worker as an outlet through which the sharpness of the class was smoothed out
owl contradictions and a whole series of harmful and
reactionary illusions. The minor ‘improvements’ carried out in parliament settled
in the working class hope that with their help he will gradually achieve
kingdom of socialism. Opportunists who predominated among the official leaders
instead of clarifying the true nature of the weapon of parliamentary struggle, supporting
lived this harmful illusion with all their might and put forward an arsenal to defend it.
nal of his knowledge and socialist phraseology. m

Some semblance of well-being for the advanced layer of workers is even greater
reinforced the above. position and thereby justified the quiet philistine
swamp of proletarian life, making it little accessible to revolutionary social
leaf agitation. In order to shake up the Western Euro-
Pei proletariat, it was necessary to survive the world massacre, a nightmare
global savagery and unprecedentedhistory of atrocities. But ideology is so con-
conservative, its old forms are so absorbed into the flesh and blood of the masses that this
is not sufficient enough. The proletariat is extremely slowly liberating itself from
bourgeois influence and its main support—ideological opportunism.

This again testifies to the tenacity and conservatism of ideology and
once again should push to strengthen the active, consistent, most
revolutionary, class socialist propaganda, to mercilessly
exposing all the old illusions and all the tricks of the worker’s enslavers
class, For the Russian worker the results of active
propaganda and agitation of the Bolsheviks, who exposed the criminal bourgeoisie
the zhuiznost of the Mensheviks, their stupid and stubborn propaganda for peaceful and lo-
divine cohabitation with the bourgeoisie. The working class remembers well what
The Bolsheviks had to endure a fierce struggle less since the bur-
quasi than with the forces of Menshevism and Socialist-Revolutionaries who defended it. Now
we can only regret that we were not yet sharp enough and firm enough in
wearing them. ,

All these facts and lessons from history are convincing enough to show
It should be noted that the economic background of developed capitalism itself is still
is not enough to serve as a clarification of class consciousness. She's like dead
this element requires its awareness and formalization into an ideology, which
then it is necessary to oppose it with all sharpness and force to the outdated one.

“Any compromise, any agreement in the field of ideology is criminal
in relation. to madness. -

Here's an example. Bourgeois thought, questions of state organization,
law, morality, constantly strives to decide from the point of view of “pure principles”
"statehood, justice, etc. All official science
the old law faculties were imbued with scholasticism of this kind.
For the proletarian this is fetishism: statehood, law, and morality.
new rules for him—practical organizational forms, to judge the
they must be used from a practical organizational point of view. And "chi-
st"principles", legal and moral, these are only the broadest general principles
8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

understanding the forms of social organization developed by the past; and it's clear
that they precisely consolidate the past, which is generalized in them. Therefore, who
begins to judge revolutionary tasks on the basis of “pure principles”,
he always looks back to the past, even if he thought something completely different. So, for example,
The request for the dictatorship of the proletariat is often dismissed on the basis of the principle of demo-
kratiya; Karl Kautsky takes this position in his last book;
This is what it means to consider the issue opportunistically, replacing the pro-
Tara's practical organizational idea. bourgeois point of view
without which democracy, as a principle, is a good in itself, and not just an organization
nizational form among other forms. This obscures class consciousness
and indicates the wrong path to solving the most important issues of the revolutionary
tions,

Class struggle requires a strictly defined class statement
ideology and a sharply defined form, so that there is no possibility of any
kind of cultural mercenaries will interpret the question + but to those who
they find it profitable to sell themselves,

Philistine condescension and opportunism in the class struggle
may take place, and in the field of cultural construction sensibilities
There should be even less uncertainty and uncertainty than in political
skaya struggle, because the demarcation and definition of proletarian lines in
cultural work is just beginning and has not yet been identified
my sharpness.

Among our closest comrades we can often find ridicule
directly related to proletarian science, to proletarian art. They are with
with the complacency of limited people they usually say: tell me what
maybe proletarian mathematics, proletarian accounting? - absolutely
not realizing that mathematics and accounting do not themselves have value and meaning
in themselves, and by what class they are practically used and how they organize life.
This is where the conservative nature of ideology comes into play.She must break
not only by the spontaneous course of development itself, but also to be prevented from being handed over"
body propaganda and agitation with all possible activity and inertia
gee.

Fedor Kalinin.

Next questions.
1. 0 collective creativity

Contrasting proletarian culture with individualistic culture
tour of the bourgeois world, we always put forward the position of collective
creativity inherent in the way of the future life in all its manifestations.

This indisputable truth, like many other things, has become a lasting heritage
broad proletarian mayos entered their lives; but not everyone clearly understands
What is collective creativity?

Many people resolve this issue in an extremely one-sided manner. Under the collective
by creativity they mean, if not exclusively, then predominantly,
lexical formulation of the problem, its collective theoretical solution, etc.
practical implementation.

.. For example, in order to organize public will in a certain
government, it is necessary in artistic and literary form, in bright, captivating
the reader’s images, to identify certain social sentiments that
that could help resolve the social problem facing society
no task. The team is not only developing a plan for the future of literary
work, but also performs it: one feeds one part, the other another;
part of the team monitors the organization of the work from the point of view of ideas -
noah, content, interest and attractiveness of the plot, the remaining members
`

L b PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 9

the team corrects the work from the technical-architectural or
technical and stylistic. o

We do not deny the possibilities, but in some. cases it is even necessary
the power of collective creativity in the indicated sense. On the contrary, we consider it
historical inevitability and we see in it a deep educational significance.
The intelligentsia of bourgeois society will undoubtedly see in the collective
creativity is an encroachment on individuality and freedom of creativity. About
at this she spoke nervously even when the letter “B” was canceled, watsinging a song about my
a hungry bird, which is supposedly ordered to fly either sideways or to the left. Bur-
zhuaz artists, individualists to the core, of course, ‘will not be able to
to capture the essence, beauty and pleasure of collective creativity; they are
turned away from creating alone, due to competition in the literary market, hidden
sharing their plans from each other. Another thing is the proletariat; every thing even
and in bourgeois society it produces collectively; especially since he has his own
collective creativity in the new life, when life becomes so
multifaceted that one person cannot embrace it entirely; and in this collective
In this creative work, the proletarian will not feel discord with his “I”, since
his “I” is moving towards a merger with society, as a collective that resolves the interests
all its members.

Recognizing the inescapability and educational significance of collective creativity
quality, it is important and necessary to point out that the proletariat, raising the question of the number
lenient creativity, first of all, one must see not this or that form of technology
creative creative process, even if it is a collective one, but its content, its
ideologicalness; it is important that creativity is collectivistic in its essence,
to your direction.

A team of highly talented individuals, and even deeply minded tendencies
tions of the historical process, despite collective creativity in the sense
joint discussion and implementation of the plan may take place in bourgeois society
This goes against proletarian ideology.

And vice versa - the individual is on his own, without any outside help.
can give deeply collectivistic artistic value, even
when he is not fully aware of the course of social progress.
Here the “subconscious” helps him,

If by collective creativity we mean only a joint plan
or joint performance, then folk songs, epics, legends, spiritual
poems, etc., will have to be recognized as proletarian, because they took shape
and were formed in the process of collective creativity. But we can't do this
dofor the simple reason that, for example, in lyric-epic songs the images
mainly the actions of princes, warriors and nobles in general are reflected
people of that time, and this is done with the aim of raising the personality of the prince before his peers.
temporary ones and thereby outshine other princes. Later, when in Oksko-volik -
Russian Rus' began to develop and strengthen the idea of autocracy, and the appanage-feo-
long-distance relationships gradually disappeared, the Kiyaz-druzhina epic caused
in the ruling class there is suspicion and a hostile attitude towards oneself. Postponed-
driven by buffoons to our northern outskirts and to Siberia, epic
lost its former face and “peasants”, again in the process of coll-
lecture-creative adaptation to the needs of the peasants
and life.

Everyone, even those not experienced in matters of proletarian culture,
composing with him oral-collective creativity, he will feel that it

1 is deeply imbued with authoritarianism, individualism, and there is no proletarianism in it

sky. collectivism, th

Largely denying the modern theater, adapted mainly
So, to the imagination of individual dramas and individual experiences, -
At the same time, we cannot say that those stagings of “Dawn” by Verhaeren and sti-
khov Whitman, who stage the Petrograd and Moscow Proletkults,
make the theater a proletarian place. Despite their shortcomings, these dramatizations
10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. s No. 6

interesting, but the multi-voiced recitation and the presence of a crowd on stage are not yet
pouring new content into the theater.

In a word, collective creativity in relation. concept and execution
is some decisive sign of proletarian art. It's its own-
in accordance with the ancient oral epic; it was known in ancient Greece,
as well as in other periods of history;

Finding out the role of the individual in poetry and the transformation of the latter from the collection
tive to personal, A. N. Veselovsky in his work “From Singer to Poet” writes:
“The exit to subjectivity was accomplished by gradual liquid secretions
cultural nature. When from a collectively tuned environment stands outI
due to things, a circle of people with different feelings and a different understanding of life,
than most, he will introduce new ones into the inherited lyrical formulas
combinations on a level with the content of your feelings; will strengthen in this area
and the consciousness of the poetic act, as such, and the self-consciousness of the poet, I feel
describing oneself as something other than. singer of an anonymous song, And at this stage
development, a new unification may occur with the same signs of collective
ness (italics by V.P.), as before: artistic lyricism of the Middle Ages—co-
verbal, it was layered on top of the folk one, came out of it and moved away into a new culture
tour movement." "Personal poet,” continues the author, “lyricist MLM opik, all
sruptova, r s i ‘and contains b $ evolucci, which singled out the sruptu’

“This is not an entirely accurate formulation, but essentially correct, “Kol-”
literal emotionality" of the people of ancient lyric poetry, as Veselov expresses
skiy, gives way to the “collective emotionality” of a certain group
society. In times of chivalry, for example, personal poetry comes to the fore,
poetry of one’s feelings, one’s aspirations, poetry and personal-public develops
tical, but this personality is not individual, & s06l0vny, therefore,
collective. She develops and consolidates a number of requirements in poetry,
necessary for a knight to be different from other groups in society.

During the Renaissance, a “new group separation” begins, for a long time
which determined the content and forms of European lyricism.” From class
society there are intelligent groups that create their own culture
tour unity, develop their own ethical code, take care of their
harmonious development, analyze their experiences, “exposing and weighing
sewing your impulses and drives, blaming yourself and defending yourself, trying to
reconcile contradictions in the organic integrity of the moral “I”. Passion
The significance of this analysis indicates a special interest in the egoistic personality, in
the price that is given to self-consciousness, the idea of glory." A representative of this era
Dante and Petrarch perform. At this time, the poet is not so much a representativeb
class, he acts as a humanist, as a person. '

In this process of transforming the singer into a poet, the transition from unorganized
bath of primitive collective creativity to the individual, personal,
much similar to the process of social development from primitive commu-
nism to the individualistic economic system of bourgeois society.

It could not be otherwise: being determines consciousness. But how in the
There was no collectivism in existence, so it did not exist in various forms of collective
lecture of creativity. Colloctivism is characteristic only of proletarian poetry.

at the moment we cannot indicate great artistic
values written completely ‘individually and at the same time’ strictly
proletarian character, with the exception of individual poems, but such
things like D. London's "Iron Heel" can be recognized as ours, although they

and are the fruit not of collective, but of individual creativity. They are orga, '

lower the psyche and will of man in full agreement with the collectivist
worldview of the proletariat. t

Here are some quotes. In a dispute with Bishop Marhouse, Ernest decisively
declares: “He (man) should not be an egoist, but he will remain so until
as long as he continues to live in a social order based on ethical
concepts of pigs" (capitalists).
No. 6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. M

Elsewhere Ernest speaks of people in the liberal professions and
artists: “In short, all professors, priests, publishers, etc.
receive their livelihood by serving the plutocracy, & the service of their co-
The point is to promote only those ideas that are harmless or
desirable for a plutocracy. Do not forget that it is the press, the church
department and university art public opinion“...
characterizing the oligarchy, Ernest says: “The oligarchs themselves have been replaced
a fascinating and, it must be said, unexpected path of development. As a class, they are themselves
you were disciplined... The strength of each individual had to go into
the united power of the oligarchy... They believed that they were right in everything. They
perceivesor the aristocratic idea from early childhood. All of them
education was imbued with this idea, and in the end it was done, their
niya, entered into their flesh and blood. They looked at themselves as training
guards of wild animals, `like leaders of a herd of animals... They believed that,
as a class, they maintain civilization. They believed that as soon as they
they will release the reins, terrible. the beast will swallow them and all beauty and happiness and
joy, and everything good in general, will all drown in his bottomless cave belly.”
’ These thoughts, given to the proletariat in artistic form, organize.
his creative will. “The Iron Heel” is the fruit of individual creativity,
but it is a cancer of the proletarian ideology and is close to us, I

D. London is considered a socialist and it may be argued that his products

ideas are tendentious,
] Let's take another example. During emigration in one of. foreign
museums I had to see a painting by a famous Swiss artist
NoShega. The canvas depicts a crowd with inspired gaze and
hands raised hysterically. The artist depicted voting;

At the University of Zurich, on one of the walls of the lobby, I met a car-
 mud by the same artist on the theme “Youth”, Sandy crumbling
a slope covered with skinny, low-growing and sparse bushes; in different poses
‘three skinny young men are sitting, evoking in the viewer’s memory photographs of the starvation
living Indians, They are painted in bright colors, but their eyes are dull, dull,
there is not a drop of energy in the body, and male features are lifeless and reminiscent of
`fallen curled leaves appear in late autumn,

1 But] g-typical Swiss bourgeois bourgeois, no collective
He, of course, does not recognize creativity. For him this is an illiterate absurdity
crowds desecrating “sacred art,” individuality, etc. And yet
But despite his will and his desire, he can inspire the proletarian
‘with your “Voting” for this or that creative impulse, because it contains
The painting is imbued with the spirit of collectivism. “Youth” is also planned
and done individually, and again heo could play for this or
another of us is of enormous importance. Being a sharp satire on the bourgeoisie
new society, the picture shows us that modern society, despite
‘to its brilliant ‘variegation, doomed to sterility and lifelessness even
in the person of his youth, and no science or art can revive
him. A more evil and caustic satire on bourgeois culture, satire, organiza-
nurturing our consciousness and feelings and inspiring us in the fight against the old
‘world, it is difficult to create even with collective creativity,

After what has been said, it is clear that in clarifying the meaning and nature of creativity
‘we must proceed not from the idea of collective creativity, as joint work, but from
we go towards collectivism, which is more or less inherent in artistic
new work. A collective work, as we have seen, can be
thoroughly imbued with the spirit of bourgeois culture, and vice versa, individual
creativity can vividly, excitingly express the idea of collectivism, the soul
new culture. First, collective creativity speaks more about the external
side of organizing the creative process ‘and plays a secondary role;
second, collectivist creativity determines the content, essence
‘creativity is the main point in the work, .

No.
}

12 ‚ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ee. No. 6

In exactly the same way it is necessary to distinguish individual creativity from individual creativity.
leaf meska. The first may be collectivistic in its content,
despite the sole intention and sole execution; second never
cannot be collectivistic, even if it was carried out individually,
but collectively.

At the First All-Russian Proletkult Conference the question was asked by 0 people:
creative creativity is not posed separately, but in connection with other issues
proletarian culture arose and caused an exchange of opinions more than once. If
one part of the speakers emphasized that a picture can be painted with ten people,
then others resolutely defended the following: “I do not agree in principle
with an expressed opinion about collective creativity; do not create collectivelymeans creating kartana together. Korda talk about collective creativity,
they understand that creativity is imbued with the spirit of collectivism; you can, of course
to paint a picture with ten people, and still it will be arch-individualistic.
If we turn to the Middle Ages, we will see that there were people who
some created individually, but their art leaned towards collectivism,
universal humanity, but for supporters of collectivism it often turns out the opposite;
To create a cadre of people who would be champions of collectivism
creativity, the proletariat must be mentally developed, but it will receive technology in
newly created museums and studios,” (Protocols of the First All-Russian Conf.
Proletkult.) `

Let us now turn from the field of art to the field of science, so that from the point of view
from the perspective of the development of science, to illuminate the issue of collective creativity.

"3? At the beginning of human life, experience was quantitatively unknown
It is remarkable that it easily fit into the consciousness of an individual; and only with
over time, when life became more complex and experience required a certain
organization and systematization, it disintegrated to serve as the beginning of the development
personal scientific disciplines; each science, grouping around itself its corresponding

The existing experience, in a certain sense, was “individualized” thanks to

isolation from other scientific disciplines. Now we are faced with the task—
identify social experience taken from individual branches of knowledge. This task
clearly requires collective resolution, due to its complexity and severity
eness: and the bourgeois world of science practices this very widely, and
the collectivity of execution often even turns into the collectivity of creativity.
quality. Isn’t this or that discovery the result of collective tension?
of thought and collective organization of experience? Sometimes this collectivity
disappears from sight, thanks to all sorts of accidental and secondary
circumstances, in other cases it is clear to everyone, but in no way
case, we cannot yet talk about proletarian science organized
on the principles of collectivism. Obviously, the question is mainly

in the method by which an individual or group processes experience,

and in the point of view from which the famous scientific work is based.

Editing the minutes of the conference, and, therefore, carefully reading
poring over every line, I saw that the proletariat, in general, correctly resolves
the question of collective creativity, but he resolves it instinctively and not in
in all cases is correct: here he is still in the power of the “subconscious” and in the shackles of the
swarm of culture. In order not to wander in the dark and not to cause confusion in the theoretical
technical and practical work, the question of collective creativity should
be placed among a number of urgent issues, otherwise we will not be able to move
move forward.

||. The scientific element in poetry.

By bringing to the fore the collectivism of art, we must emphasize
It is clear that for the proletariat the most valuable works of art are those in which
of which social experience is embodied, and not individual... Here art
tan or otherwise knowledge helps. And this raises the question about the role of sciences: in art
quality
No. 6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 18

In this case, we will try to establish a certain view on
element of science in poetry. !

When we talk about poetry, we first mean imagery
language and its musicality. In poetic transmission, experience is expressed through
with the help of living images, which emphasize with particular brightness
and even exaggerate those elements of the lived experience that for some reason
or particularly shocked the psyche.

Let's see how knowledge was reflected in the poetry of the primitive era: in
songs, fairy tales, conspiracies, etc. Of course, knowledge of that time was not
organized and high, like a modern one, but it fully reflected the eco-
cultural relations of that period could not have been any other way,

Patriarchal-tribal society is characterized by the presence of two
types of labor: organizer and and: Organizational labor.—
leadership, command, it requires great knowledge, abilities, understanding
niya and is ‘more complex than performing work. Performerscue
labor - exact fulfillment of the orders of the organizer - this work is simple and less
He is born, everyone is capable of him. According to the relationships between the organi-
congestion and performer, as two main categories of the structure of society,
people of that era and all of nature began to be represented in the form of two elements: material
spirit and spirit, the beginning of the organized and the beginning of the organizing. From the same point
sight, man began to examine himself: he found in himself an organ-
the congestion is the push and the performer is the body. This is how the worldview of that
me. It seems to be imbued with animism, i.e. the animation of the whole
childbirth, - dualism, i.e. recognition of two principles - and mysticism, 'g.-e. by faith
into the supernatural, into a miracle.

In connection with the cult of ancestors-organizers and the forces of nature as good,
tah and evil ones, the custom has become established of turning to the gods in prayer and
offering, . 7 V

If we now turn to the first forms of verbal works,
then without any difficulty we notice that the patriarchal-tribal era has left
a huge mark on their development: the person expressed ‘his attitude towards spirituality
the nature he himself recognized in words denoting objects and phenomena:
hence the liveliness and figurative language of that era, which left their traces in
languages of different peoples to the present day.

Here is the autumn song: “The first tower - the moon is bright, the other tower -
the sun is red, the third tower is frequent stars. The month was brightening—the owner himself, red.
the sun is the mistress, often the stars are their children.”

This song clearly reflected the main elements of religious authoritarianism.
a lot of knowledge. era, which was enshrined much earlier in the Bible, in
words: “Other glory is to the sun, another glory to the moon, another glory to the stars, there is no star
the stars vary in glory." The economic role of a person determines his place
in verse and image. The owner is the main organizer of the family, he welcomes
first and is compared with the sun, as the first in size and the most
an important luminary for life, Children or the economy does not matter at all,
or—insignificant, they are welcomed last, like stars.

Images of hospitalitya lot of master, mistress and children, - month, ‘sun and
stars - are, according to the animistic worldview of that time,
the personification of a good beginning; the sun warms me and promotes growth,
disperses darkness, which an evil enemy can take advantage of, etc. d.

The sun, month and stars appear for the same reasons in conspiracies.
Almost every conspiracy begins with the words: ..., I’ll go into an open field, into the dark
forests, under the clear dawn, under the red sun, under the light, moon, under frequent
stars." It is very likely that in ancient times those who conspired not only
wore these words, but also performed actions corresponding to them.

These images are in complete harmony with the knowledge of their time. Between
There is absolutely no contradiction between them. On the contrary, they reinforce
14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 6

in the popular consciousness the religious-mythical knowledge of that era and thereby
perform a social organizing role.

As for the epithets: “clear sun”, “clear month”, “clear falcon”,
like many others, then “their identity, as A. N. Veselovky writes, originated
dilo’ not from a conscious poetic search for correspondence between a person
and nature, but from our physiological illegibility. Since then we
learned to enjoy separately and separately understand those around us
phenomena; We do not mix, as it seems, the phenomena of sound and light, but the idea
whole, a chain of mysterious correspondences that surround and define our
“I” will fill and entangle us more than ever.”

At first, human life was identified with the life of nature,
& thinking was mythical in its time. Comparison of transformation-
moose into identification. From our point of view, this is where the bizarre
a chain of scientific explanations of natural phenomena and human life. At this time
judgments are formed: “horse—raven,” “sun—wheel”; the whole is fixed
a number of epithets: “clean field”, “wild little head”, “clear falcon”; some
epithets are deeply real in nature, for example, “tight onion”, “red-hot”
arrow", "sharp saber". Over time there has beenwaiting for epithets forgotten
is lost, the originally invested content is lost (who, for example,
can now historically explain the expression: “A rich man is like a horned bull”?),
and the renewal of epithets gradually begins; instead of “the wind is stormy” we use
they say “the wind is strong and stormy,” etc. n.\

Later, a person begins to isolate himself from nature and even against
trust yourself to her. And the further this process goes, the greater the identification
turns into comparison, Comparison “lightning-bird”, “man-tree” is mixed
is expressed by comparison: “lightning is like a bird,” “a man is like a tree,” etc.
A negative comparison appears when objects are opposed: “What
Not swallows, not killer whales hover their nests around the warmth, but the dear one hovering here
mother." Figurative expressions of antiquity, especially those that got their start
in rituals and religious family cults, they turn into symbols.

When a singer, in the process of developing oral folk art, transforms
transforms into a master, into a specialist, images and symbols are gradually fixed.
And while, thanks to knowledge, some people understand them allegorically,
others take it literally. We understand the expression “warm heart” as
"fiery character". In the epic expression “a burning heart”, “in it
the heart flared up” flammability in the physical sense was attributed to the heart,
In 1547, during the Moscow fire, Tsar Ivan the Terrible, boyars, patriarchs
the arch and the common people claimed that Princess Glinskaya with all her children and
people “hearts of men (combustible) washed out and with sorcery Moscow
"They burned."

But as parallel to the development of economic life comes
development of science, knowledge of previous eras in some of its parts pre-
‘embedded in delusion, in prejudices that hinder the organization
new life, and therefore the images of the old time, embodying
outdated ideology, despite its poetry, can no longer be fulfilled
five its socially. organizational function and should be replaced by new
new images corresponding to the level of science.

Vourgeois science preservedand there are many traces of knowledge of the patriarchal
halal-tribal era: dualism and mysticism are still strong in it.

And bourgeois poetry constantly uses images borrowed from
from times of the past, bearing the imprint of an obsolete ideology.

The proletariat cannot come to terms with this. Creating your proletarian
a science free from mysticism and dualism, he must create such
poetry that would be on par with scientific knowledge. And for this purpose
The tariat will have to develop a new poetic language—its own images and symbols.
oxen from the surrounding life - in the light of new science, so that in contradiction with
It cannot consolidate the old, dying. —

` *
No. 6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. — 15

Here are the poems by S. Yesenin:
"Oh, Motherland,
My Russian Field,
And you, her sons,

! Stopped

On the stockade'
Moon and sun
Praise God."—

Is this reminiscent of an ancient Russian conspiracy or lamentation?
Isn’t there evidence here of the mysticism of the religious-mythical knowledge of the first
everyday era? Why does the working class need this?

Another example from “Proletarsky Obornik” No. 1, published from
by V. Ts. I. K. Soviets. } , :

D. Semenovsky writes about the Mother of God in the following verses:

Rizas are delicately colored silks,
Th branches of heavenly patterns...
They serve this force! # countless,
Guardians of the monastery on high."

We have to admit that the image of the “flowers of heavenly patterns” was taken
from mythology and the proletariat cannot be accepted, it is undermining
ours: worldview and strengthening prejudices and fables about non-
demonic paradise. In the same way, the image of the “guardian of the monastery above” is not ours, again
but for the same reasons. It turns out that in these four lines the
The “letarian” poet expressed knowledge of a very distant era,

What has been said above must be repeated about ordinary images that
we use without noticing them. For example, “the sun rises and sets”,
although, perhaps, it will not be long before the language adapts to new knowledge to such an extent that
to use such metaphors. As is known, salt in relation to
“in your system it is motionless and cannot “rise and set”maybe. This is co-
corresponded to the understanding of the time when people were convinced that
<the sun moves around the earth. True, these images do not attract those terrible
events that occurred from the “burning heart” during the Moscow
fire, but they are unnecessary and interfere with the penetration of knowledge into the general public.

‚ stannaya lyrics! fell its images from the world of animals, plants and
inorganic nature. The proletariat cannot, of course, ignore
these sources, but he will approach them with his own special point of view; for
for him, “breaking the viburnum” does not mean marrying a girl, just like “spill
water" and "spilling of pearls" are not a symbol of sadness and sadness.

The poet takes his images from life closer to him. If images and
symbols of old poetry in accordance with the economic way of life of the marriage
were predominantly from sources close to the rural man,’ then Teier
The people of the world draw their images and symbols from the life of the city, the factory and
plant “A clear falcon, a black raven, light brown curls, a red maiden, a mother-
cheese-earth" are replaced by "a steel round dance of machines, a metallic hum,
cannonade of a hammer and motor, iron beams, angles, cranes,
rails,” etc., governed by the laws of mechanics.

In the future, when proletarian poetry embraces all life, its images will become
chickpeas are much richer and more varied; but they must always be scientific,
so that science and poetry can together play an organizational role in life.

Let us now dwell on the rhythm of the verse and its musicality. Rhythm, like
other elements of poetry are subject to change, it has its own history
development and reflects the rhythm of life of his era. \

Let us turn again to primitive oral creativity. It is closely related
< primitive social labor and its origin are due to the
thorny features of the latter. °
16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 6

Physical labor comes down to a combination of muscular movements; right-

The constant alternation of basic movements is called the working rhythm - this rhythm
work is especially clear when you have to use tools in your worklabor
cops. The sound of a woodcutter's ax or a blacksmith's hammer is repeated through
limited periods of time; but with this sound we learn about uniformity
‹rest and unevenness of time intervals between the main muscles
movements, the sounds accompanying the work form the so-called
‘onic (tone) rhythm. The tonic rhythm is of enormous importance in
organization of work. He plays the role of a regulator, under the influence of the worker
rhythm has developed a tendency towards rhythm in everyday life. About blacks, for example,
the following was noticed: “Whatever they do, whether they walk, dance, sing,
they spend, and work, they do everything in a rhythm that the stupidest blacks
more without distinction, observe with greater precision than our soldiers and
musicians after long training and exercise“,

“In the fact that the work is accompanied by sound rhythm with its emotional
influence we see, as D. Ovsyaniko-Kulikovsky writes, deeply
thorny example of a general, one might say, world-historical phenomenon,
which can be summarized under the following formula: sound rhythm and rhythm
body movements, both active and even more passive, with their psycho-physical
social and mental influences (affect, emotion), were also associated
to primitive times with various functions of culture and the entire social
sing life, and this association became so strong that since then humanity has
in all spheres of your life and activity, on all paths of your civilization
inetinctively seeks the emotions of rhythm as an accompanying moment, etc. gains
they provide the necessary relief, refreshment, tranquility, spiritual support,
often real, often imaginary."

The mechanism of rhythmic experiences consists of neurovascular movement
system, as an involuntary result of exposure to physical processes
cesses (active rhythm) or corresponding representations (passive
rhythm). Neither objective-physical nor subjective-psychological phenomena
rhythm cannot appear outside the vasomotor system,

The working rhythm served as the starting point for the emergence of music.
singing, dancing and orals poetic works. )

From the involuntary screams and exclamations that accompanied labor and
changing the tonic rhythm, a song was formed, at first simple ‘in its own
lodni, & then more complex. Subsequently, from the many songs, some
timed to coincide with more or less permanent events, others, on the contrary,
have lost their ritual, cultural character. and became commonplace:
thus, over time the song breaks away from the work, but the beat
work doesn't disappear. '

The special talent of musicians and poets is that they
the action of various influences - impressions, feelings, memories, complete
‘knowing pictures of nature, etc..—they freely perform not only
rhythmic, but also rhythmic-harmonic unification of mental movements,
poured into one form or another. Sometimes it happens quickly, other times
and gradually, with difficulty.

Both in the period of oral creativity and in modern times, the rhythm of poetry
always reflects the rhythm of life in its diversity and complexity. Rhythm
works of distant times was uncomplicated and monotonous - this simplicity and
The poetry of that time is distinguished by monotony as from the outside! its metric,
so are the rhythms. Subsequently, the rhythm of work, life and poetry becomes more complex.

Greek elegy, for example, from the times of Nallinus and Archilochus, respectively
its content and poetic mood, was usually written in distic,
couplets, consisting of an epic hexameter and a pentameter.

The hexameter ties the elegy to the epic, and the pentameter, violating the majesty
the proudly solemn course of the epic hexameter gives the verse greater liveliness
and mobility to express the movement of the author’s feelings and thoughts. But the distich
No. 6 r PROLETARIAN CULTURE. `` at 17

essentially a rather simple form and does not allow one to express the whole
depths of experience.

Greek lyric poetry in the person of Archilochus gave the rough iambic an artistic
poetic form. A simple iambic, as the Greeks jokingly say,
was invented by an old washerwoman who was washing wool in the sea and screamed
n of a careless passer-by: “Stupid,worthless, go away, give me water
you're making a mess.'

Archilochus creates iambic hexameter from simple iambic (iambic tri-
meter), light, agile, fascinating, very suitable for satirical
sky poems. The sharpness of his satire is sufficiently evidenced by
There is a story about Lycambe, the father of the girl he adored, who rejected him
courtship. For this, Archilochus threw his iambics at Lycambus and brought him to
daughter to the point that they both hanged themselves. Here is one of his jokes:

“Father Lycambus, what are you up to?”
(Who has clouded your mind so much?
You were strong before
Now he has become a laughing stock for everyone."

Archilochus also produces octameter trochee (trochaic
tetrameter), which is softer than the rapid iambic and is convenient for expression
feelings of grief, participation and reflection,

Sometimes it can be difficult to grasp and determine the meter of a verse. Horace,
for example, he writes about Pindar that “his song is carried by a stormy, mountainous
a current, which, overflowing from the rain, noisily spills along the banks.”
According to the Roman poet, Pindar's speech "rushes within limits alien to
law." The most careful study of Pindar's verses has shown that in
his poems, “alien to the law,” have their own law, giving them their beauty
and your slimness. If you have enough free time, you could
pick up a series of Greek poems to find out the rhythms in them
development and combination, in parallel with the complication of social life.

The bourgeois life of modern society also has its own rhythm, and
owns modern poets. The main rhythm is colored by the rhythm of the individual
algistic experiences, passions, the rhythm of anarchic production and
competition, the rhythm of modern city life.

Parvub in one of his beautiful books “Koosharoik”, when he
was a revolutionary socialist, this is how Zhian described the bourgeoisie -
Ilaosov: “A real orgy of the pursuit of wealth and pleasure has taken over
all layers of the bourgeoisie. Home-grown morality with its rules of modesty,
moderation ® contentment with little, mediocrity, with 5 its everyday life, home
with Chavty, familyand joys, with her caution, glances, reservations.
her imperceptible transitions, the gray tone in clothes, art, with her fearful
strong colorful effects are thrown away, thrown into the trash. Courage.
capture, risky play, brawl, race, jostling to achieve first
prize, lack of conscience, seeing justification in success, contempt for everyone
an aspiration that does not ‘have money as its goal is an undisguised zero’
mammon and cynical social’ skepticism, which reduces the inheritance to nothing
bathroom foundations of family, religion, social life and exciting one not
an insatiable thirst for pleasure, which drives its victims in the noise of the
from one pleasure to another without fatigue or rest, because the individual does not
lost all ideal connection with his social environment - this is the spirit of the New Age
time. Everyone lives in the moment without past and future, the whole world has been transformed
Happy to be on a colossal stock exchange.” (I quote from A. Lunacharsky’s article “Atheists”).

This bourgeois life created its own harmony of rhythm, it put forward the
a long range of relevant composers and musicians; at the same time she co-
created her own rhythm and musicality in poetry. And, naturally, she often senses
yes to the working class, although he, like a child of his time, often imitates
and lives by it. :

Proletarian Culture No. 6, 2
a PROLETARIAN CULTURE. №06

`Bourgeois science, which is alien to understanding the development of modern
society, unable to accurately analyze and establish the harmony of rhythm
life, and therefore it seems chaotic to her.

Poetry, where the “subconscious” plays a large role, captures the complexity
rhythm not only of bourgeois life, but also of a new, developing, although
does not always convey it accurately. As in the polysyllabic city noise, in the seeming
In the chaos of sounds, “you can catch the melody of the future, so you can trace
it can also be found in the blank verses of Whitmon, Verhaeren and others. In the new music
the rhythmic-harmonic combination of mental movements is interesting, for example"
measures, in Scriabin’s poems, in Stravinsky’s “Petrushka”.

The proletariat views society as “cooperation,whole, hug-
revealing individuals and groups and revealing in the field of knowledge and technology
horizons completely inaccessible to the individual." "How relative
new unity of consciousness unites the work of various partial systems
brain, individual brains in cooperation, jointly building their collective
nal experience and culture form a higher system.” Thus, the proletariat, “open-
vaya unity of spirit and matter, the labor and combat nature of history, life
and nature,” realizes “that life is a union of forces, an organization, a supreme unity
them, constantly growing." (From A, Lunacharsky “Atheists”). This new life
carried on his proletarian life.

And this life in all its grandeur and versatility carries its own rhythm
future, still unsolved and uncaptured by the poet, and his own special music-
cality.

The proletarian poet will look for his rhythm and his images in the new society*
life he created: in a socialist society, in the roar of a socialist
factories, in the harmony of collective creativity. Since socialism brings
development of personality with all its large and small abilities and transformation
lives, then the main range of rhythms of poetry will be organically connected with
with a host of other derivative rhythms, which can give, on the whole, the most beautiful
symphony. The rhythm of the modern city and factory is complex, but we must grasp
develop the laws of rhythm in the operation of steam boilers, drive belts, and in a vortex
turning wheels, the hum of cars, the sounds of trams, etc. etc. and accordingly
the existing rhythms of personal experiences.

Modern proletarian poetry in its lyrics uses images
symbols, rhythm and music of the past, and its very content is often
imbued with bourgeois ideology, but it must be new from the top
sides

Socio-political poetry is naturally imbued with new content.
nium, but these technical methods were again borrowed from bourgeois
poets.

The proletariat, creating the future culture, must first of all
publish your own poetry. And for this, he must study and resolve from his point of view
questions: about collective creativity, figurativelystyle and musicality of the verse.

Valeryan Polyansky,

Working methods of ..Proletkult“.

Proletarian culture grows through the thickness of the old culture, although weak
mi, but rapidly growing stronger, She is now experiencing her infancy
quality that requires special care, intense attention, careful
and love relationship. The number of people consciously and actively working on
new culture, very little. Their experience is limited. Their strength is not enough.

In addition, the very ‘paths to creating proletarian culture’ have not yet been
are fully clear, and its outlines appear only in general terms -
Much remains undeveloped and unclear, the features of the proletarian culture.
No. 6 PROLE TAR CULT HURRAY. 19

tours and methods of its implementation continued to cause controversy and controversy,
disagreement. You have to do experiments, take risks on different experiments, often
groping. At the same time, sometimes we approach our work too theoretically.
work and do not know how to find ways to realize our abstract ideas
marriages in life, sometimes, on the contrary, we are carried away by the practice of life, and we involuntarily
we become possibilists, opportunistically, for the sake of practical achievements
forgetting theory.

All these features of the new work naturally force the first
It’s time to worry not so much about the wide scope of activities, but about the
its thoughtful depth: Therefore, “Proletkults” quite naturally remained
were updated on the “studios” system, i.e. at work of a relatively narrow scale,

among the few proletarian groups.

Woof, school-studios of literary creativity, theater,
musical, visual arts, etc.; Each of them contains
itself two to three dozen people working under the guidance of instructors
"Proletkult"

These studios can best be compared (as they often are) with
laboratories where, in a special, partly artificial, environment, they are produced
experiments to find new ones. cultural conquests, Only after non-
large groups of scientists and students after a long and little noticeable work
boyou in the laboratory will achieve tangible results, the results of their labors
will be taken out of bounds. laboratory walls, will be thrown into the thundering
factories will become available to the general public and enter into everyday use.

The initial, still timid, still student steps of our “Proletkults”
are done in this laboratory silence of the studios, where a few, enthusiastic
cherished by a new idea, where the work of creative quests is underway, where critical
the soil for the planned grandiose building is being felt. Work "Pro-
Letkults" became a studio work par excellence.

Studios are, of course, a very valuable tool for concentrating creativity.
ical efforts of the proletarian masses. Their activity already gives us a tactile
new results. But at the same time we have to face a certain criticism
How to approach excessive enthusiasm for studios. We need to pay attention
and on the negative aspects of the studios, which will continue to affect,
'the more

The nature of the work of the studios requires a small number of participants, concentrated
precisely concentrating their energy in one or another special, creative
chesky region. This naturally gives rise to a certain isolation of the studios.
and their isolation from the wider masses. The studios are getting some kind of self-sufficient
character. They remain outside the influence of the masses, and in turn do not cause
have almost no response in the environment.

`Very important and interesting work can go on in the studios themselves, through
extremely valuable for the cause of proletarian culture, but since this work develops
lies within four walls, outside the masses, it essentially loses most of its
its meanings. ,

A technical laboratory without a neo plant makes sense (if left in
side of the problem of abstract science).

’, From the moment studios turn inward, if only for the sake of the worst,
creative work, the cultural and creative work of the proletariat significantly
tapers. After all, only thanks to close communication with one’s class
Letarian studio will be able to correctly find new paths of culture. And
only influencing your class, only widely deconquering him with his
ideas or at least experiments, it will help broad creativity in the field
new culture.

By closing in on themselves, the studios immediately take on a greenhouse character.
The laboratory ‘becomes a greenhouse where, perhaps, large ta-
lants, but already breaking the umbilical cord connecting them with their native class, and
therefore, and unable to create a new culture of this class, But the gap

2*
20 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 6

with the working class always means a transition, ‘even if not consciously, to another
social group, of course, the bourgeoisie.

“The same isolation of the studios and the desire to carefully prepare
to recruit specialists, masters of their craft, who have mastered all the technical achievements
knowledge of one’s creative craft, gives rise to another desire, observing
My passion among studio members is professionalism. The workers who discovered
abilities in the field of fine literature, theater, painting, want goals -
com to devote myself to this beloved work and leave both the factory and that environment
household, social and party life, among which they lived until then.
Of course, in an effort to deepen your knowledge and improve your
ability lies a completely sound instinct. But the craving for professionalism
also has serious negative sides, due to the fact that it again often
leads to a break with the class and transition to the category of bohemian intellectuals
tions of the petty bourgeoisie,

Striving to specialize in poetry or poetry, the proletarian ends up
from their midst into that layer of writers or artists who are essentially
deeply hostile to proletarian culture and thoroughly steeped in tradition
past, After all, the proletariat has not yet managed to identify a sufficiently numerous
a new and close-knit environment of their own poets, artists, artists.

This dangerous professionalism engendered by studios, especially
late and harmful precisely now, in the acute period of the revolution, when every
the proletarian must not only be closely connected with his class, but also bear
public and military functions,

Finally, negative characterstudio actor is especially affected by
because there are still very few of them and their influence is limited. They are perfect
but they are drowning in a number of other organizations and do not yet have their own forces,
sufficiently numerous that could form a cohesive core,
a powerful environment with its own requirements and habits.

But so far the number of studios has not multiplied and their work has not expanded
broadly, you have to think about how to avoid those negative aspects
studio activities, which are noted above,

First of all, measures must be taken to ensure that the studio is crowded, organically
skilly connected with the whole life of the working class in all the diversity of its aspects
phenomena. Studios must be an integral part of workers' organizations, be
with them in constant contact, help them in their needs, respond to their
requests. This will be expressed specifically, for example, in the fact that the literary studio
will.edit and maintain a local magazine or draft proclamations and letters
stockpiles for the needs of the region; artistic—decorating clubs: making banners
and posters, draw decarations; theaterway - to whiten the areas of snectacle
mi 'and evenings; choral—give your choirs for demonstrations, concerts
> AN:

With such public speeches, which are quite possible after 4-5 months,
100 years of studio work, studio members will feel that their work is receiving
lively response and critical assessment, and this will naturally deepen their connection with
their class for which they work. }

Of course, all these speeches before the general public must be
be accompanied by strict criticism both from instructors and from
ronii spectators, Without this captious criticism the noise of success, explained
most often not by the merit of the work performed, but by the specific conditions

‚viyami, in which speeches are clarified (benevolent, low-skill

an attractive audience, the novelty of the studio’s work itself, etc.), may turn out to be
harmful and paralyzing the necessary critical attitude of studio residents towards
to ourselves, .

To give the daily work of the studios a broader character,
before everythingit is necessary to make her classes open to everyone.) This is not
means that, say, voiceless people will enroll in a choir and study
creative instructors, No, this only means that everything will be open
„No. 6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 21

—
access to attend lessons and commas as listeners, Such
Volunteers, perhaps, will come in first out of idle curiosity or
from “there is nothing to do,” but since they “have a spark of attraction to some
form of art or scientific and literary work, they will gradually become involved
into studio classes and become active members of the studios. Listeners are
a reserve frame of studio members, linking them to the masses, like military reserves
connect the regular army with the Vyadov population.

` We also come to the need to create some kind of studios
rocky type, mass capture, where not a narrow circle will actively work
registered studio members, but a much more fluid and numerous mass.

Let the literary studio arrange a reading of new works one day.
of its members in a large audience at a 00th literary evening.
Let criticism of these works be carried out through broad discussion with
participation of everyone. Let ZhB be invited to read his
works to anyone who wants it.

Let the theater studio, after its performance or evening, call for
criticism of all those present and discusses his successes and failures not in a close circle,
and, so to speak, “on the street,

Let the fine arts studio organize not only some
exhibition of works by all proletarians of the local area, but will also try to organize
to organize free excursions for everyone to museums and “our sketches”, some
Esreda" for everyone who did not have time to study and wants at least two hours in non-
I share paint and charcoal to sculpt by hand.

Let proletarian poets and musicians try to perform not only
in the evenings, but also at your factory, during a break during work, ‘or on the street and
area.

Let the seeds of a new culture be sown with a more generous hand even in the field,
which may not seemcultivated and not fertile. In it. much
more living juices and fruitfulness than it might seem,

But this is not enough. We need to interest the broad masses in working on
new culture" This requires, of course, extensive oral and written
propaganda: or! Janization of special rallies of Proletkult, issue
special leaflets and brochures...

It is necessary to establish a systematic involvement of more and more new elements
but only in studio work, but in general in any kind of work on
proletarian culture. We need to give slogans, interest, awaken creativity
local competition (public speaking, etc.).

But it should also, without being drawn into the circle of activities of Proletkult,
start searching, registering and studying all the new creativity that
the swarm is taking place. now the proletarian masses are in spontaneous work to create
introducing new foundations of life. Proletarian culture in its many forms
manifestations already bears fruit and has its achievements completely
regardless of the existence and activities of Proletkults. Colossal
work of this kind. We have hardly studied it at all, we hardly see it.

"Proletkults" more than anyone else are obliged to follow this creative
work; taking place outside of their influence. It is necessary to describe 6e, summarize,
it is necessary to contact closely the most outstanding workers of the proletarian
culture and attract them to the Proletkult organization. It should also be taken into account
to marshal all the forces of proletarian writers, poets, actors, scientists,
artists, ; :

Why, for example, not organize an all-Russian painting exhibition 1
sculptures of proletarian artists? Why not publish the ontology of proletarians?
skaya poetry, where to give a place to everyone who has become a proletarian in any way
Chinese poets? o

And you can find dozens of methods to enable you
appear to all proletarians working in the field of creating a new culture,
ts help their unification. h
22 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, no.

Of course, the further the socialist construction of Russia goes,
the easier it will be for the “Flying Plane” to workltov", the wider its scope will become.
different kinds of organizing organizations will throw Proletkults off their shoulders purely:
preparatory, general educational or highly technical work.
There will be large cadres of workers who have passed elementary musical,
literary, scientific training and those capable of more thoroughly and specifically
start working on a new culture.

Until then, Proletkults, while remaining autonomous, must
establish close ties with cultural and educational organizations of another
kind, in order to extend your influence to them, in order to draw from there
new forces for the proletarian construction of culture.

Now the “Ptoletcults” have already developed, to some extent, the basic
principles of their activities and have not developed for themselves in any way
only theoretical directives, but also outlined certain practical
working methods. The next task of their activities will now be the fight {with
isolation, the desire to involve the broad masses in one’s work, the desire
merge as closely as possible with them in your work.

In this close communication with the proletariat, Troletkults can only

develop correctly... ]
In... Kerzhentsev,

.

Theory and practice.

“Truth is always concrete,” said Chernyshevsky. This means: truth
always relates to the practice of life; moreover, to our practice,

There is no truth that is not connected with living needs and in-
interests of working people. Neg neutral truths, immaterial for them: people
labor is paid and responsible for everything that is thought, composed and created.

All "trends" in art, philosophy and politics pass through
the very core of the world of work, preventing or helping workers to live like human beings
forever.

In this sense, any truth is always and even too concrete, as in
the consolidation of other people's labor, other people's blood and tears. |

Individual, personal talent and personal creativity are the most beautiful things

. plant grown on soil that is richly fertilized with “cow meal”
lions of workers.

If instead of fruits you get a barren flower, then someone willdelivers, convenient
pleasure in the form of a new, untested trembling of “refined” but upset
nerves, s,

But not everyone is empty-handed. Fruits are also a fact. Absolute - "barren flower -
ness" no. Even passing trends in the art of “ephemeris”, even daily
iiu—deposited in the psyche and consciousness, ‘

Great masters and creators, discarding the ugly and unnecessary, like bees,
they choose in the “new” everything valuable for the construction of a universal humankind, at least
and distant.

/ There will be a time when the descendants of working people, all without exception and already for
themselves, dancing to their joy, using the work of all generations and all the achievements
thoughts and arts will become the material of their thoughts,

and*zh

In practical terms, the truth of war is specific, is it sooner or later?
she will not miss getting into her “practical hand” (Y\'z rgas@sa] vap e),
as the English say, and to go into the practice of the name does not matter in what form it is
khan direction - h

The great family of humanity has been sowing roses for many thousands of years.
harvest", } $ s
No. 6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 9

Petina is always social, always public both in origin and in
final results. | |

Practice gives birth to truth, and practice puts it into action.

The practice of all humanity, ‹

For humanity as a whole, nothing passes without a trace: neither bad nor
good. Nero, Atilla, Tamerlane should also be used, cal
individual dark touches in the overall picture of human development; they strengthen
enhance its relief and brightness. Blood is the best color in this picture, and
Tears are the strongest and most reliable internal connection of the whole story.

Humanity is searching theoretically in all directions and trying to
happens almost everywhere

Humanity never sleeps or rests. It is interested in everything
both in theory and in practice, but never only in theory or only in practice,
It is a great seeker and builder. But it’s still too wasteful and
inconsiderate. Yes. But it will be different. This is why it works and suffers.

‚ Practice gives the roots to theory, but it is also guided by itself! theory. All-
cue "practical calculation"“, “plan” is already a theory, or rather, theoretical
side of the practical operation. Work or business without any theory is too
ban, rolled by a monkey without sense or meaning,

On the other hand, every theory follows from the practice of the previous one and
gives oenova for subsequent practice. Three points of intervention theory
into practice:

Initial: “can be done differently”,

Intermediate: “We need to do this exactly how.”

Final: ›„the experience convinces that the organization is doing things in a new way.
more called, more practical."

The first point is criticism of the old theory on the basis of the emerging
practices; second - presentation and justification of the new theory and third - review
new theory in practice. |

In modern life there are a lot of such purely practical tasks, where each
partial operation involves very complex theoretical calculations.

A simple shot from a 15-16-inch gun in war is a whole event.
The target is not visible, you need to “take the direction”, raise the sight accordingly,
so that the projectile flies in the right direction and just the right distance,

As for the present time, without theory, without complex pre-
You won’t even be able to drink enough tea from the cooking facilities. Who acts in everything “on-
good luck”, he easily “got”, but only where he didn’t want to go
get in"

, * *

Practice—test of theory. “Theoretical “mistakes” are correctable. But
if in practice the application of the theory someone stretched out his legs in vain, then it is possible
The question remains why this happened.

If something is wrong, it must first be that it was poorly conceived in theory, or in
poorly done in practice. Or a good practitioner thoughtlessly and went blindly
behind a bad theorist, or a good theory has fallen into the hands of people who believe
that “the new one is better,” but they don’t know how to make it “better.”

“At the expense of future benefits,” the masses of working people have so far sacrificed a great deal.
with some secret things, even with life. But not everything is like that and not always like that. It is necessary
know the “plan” and “estimate”, “calculations” and “calculations”. You have to “feel” something and
pipes to the hands of those who are “sacrifices according to the estimate.”

And if the whole “operation” as a wholepractically gives me good, but evil is—
death sentence for the theory.

The new fruit must be good for exactly what it was intended for,
and be on time. Pranksters and charlatans of bad “theoreticism”, half-
bench press, they know how to dodge, They will refer, for example, to an “evil spirit”; who-
Ry pulled up the wheat and stuck “thistles”. Otherwise they will prove that
thistle" is no worse than wheat or will soon be wheat,
24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 6

“

From these “tricks” and “twists”, at best, it can turn out
a funny anecdote with a tragic background, but never a creative legend.

You don’t need to sit for thirty years and three years to “get enough”
spirit" and start looking for a "ring" to engrave the "globe". Earthly
The ball already rotates easily and neatly. But understand, master the system and
the path of its rotation means obtaining a lever for weighing the most distant

left-wing luminaries—to obtain an “arshin” for measuring colossal planetary

japius in heavenly space, where a ray of light runs for years “from the station to
stations"; get a way not only to weigh the “visible and invisible”, but also
find out what it consists of.

This, of course, is more difficult than moving mountains the way of Mohammed. When
it will be necessary, any mountain will obediently follow our orders, like a dreadnought,
launched into the water. Of course, in addition to the “pointing pen”, here you will have to
put into action the corresponding organized system.

But if the chorus itself begins to move due to spontaneous reasons, for example, from
earthquakes, then what does it have to do with us and our “pointing finger of leaders”
events"

They are reminiscent of that South American ruler who daily
in the morning, in the presence of all his loyal subjects, he solemnly extended
his “royal club” towards the rising sun, and then slowly
indicated the path in which the sun should go, And there was, of course, no occasion for
it disobeyed. x
# #:

A correct theory makes practice powerful and invincible.

The practice of millions of people over a number of generations, when done correctly
interpreted, gives the truth a lionth claws, eagle wings and gaze. Her on-
board? From earth to cosmic space, from moment to eternity, according to
only in order to understand every matter, give it an assessment and definition

about time and space, in the “eternal” and “infinite”, , }

So, theory is organized from the point of view of this or that collective
our daily practice. A. practice worthy of imitation - deliberate,
the ambitious execution of the plan in practice.

No educational endeavor should be overlooked
people of practice, Maybe tomorrow it will already “go into the plan” and will be
lie in execution. And vice versa, not a single specific, even unreasonable effort
practice should not remain outside the consideration and control of theory, otherwise tomorrow
for this omission you will have to sacrifice creative ones in case of creative failures
by the forces of society. :

Humanity’s strengths need to be harnessed and saved. He doesn’t have much of them yet.
and humanity is still a weak, naive and helpless child. He needs
there is still a lot of work and suffering until it knows and defines itself.

Practical theory and theoretical practice must teach this
great baby, born from the convulsive shaking of centuries-old
foundations of the earth, what should he do and what should he do...

Jesus once said, “Live like children.” In this seeming naivety
there is no real creative power, less than in the entire mechanism of the universe. Children
naively, he tried to grab the moon and stars with his hands. They try, thinking
that this is possible. However, is it not from here that astronomy, the most accurate
from the branches of knowledge, and doesn’t it determine our position in the “immense”?

Before our eyes, the “bloody newborn” begins to stretch out
with warm hands towards the sun of a new life. The helpful sages shout in horror:

- Don't go... You'll get burned...

Nothing. If he doesn’t get burned, he will never know that the new execution is in effect.
is really possible in our world. A child learns almost everything like this: he gets burned,
he will hurt himself, cry and... understand. And when he understands, it will be different next time.
will suit the same oneadache; primary experience always serves as a threshold
to the eternal business. . m
№0 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 25:

*
th cut in

A new business is not done right away. Even when we learn from others’ habits
a new business for them, where everything has already been taken into account and checked, and even then you can’t protect yourself
from mistakes, thanks to “impracticality”. What to say when the case is new
for everyone, both for “teachers” and for “students”, when everyone is searching and trying
the path, methods and medium of implementation, when. no one has yet
knows how best to do it?..\

The task of gathering humanity into one collective, to the center of a single thought
and a single cause, has already been put on the priority list by world necessity, - theo-
theoretically and practically.

Many “warm-hearted” people sincerely believe that it will not be resolved
someday, but almost “this minute.” Others ominously predict failure.

The solution of life, as always, will be according to the resultant; she didn't justify
gives completely neither hopes nor fears, but without faith in success nothing is possible
neither start nor do. Accurate predictions are impossible for us. Facts
every now and then they confuse all the “calculations” and “calculations” and create events in the development
This is something that didn’t even occur to me yesterday. ]

Scientific prediction of social events and their consequences with precision
the power of astronomical calculations is not a matter of the near future, but to fight,
we need to work, build, destroy, sow and eradicate now,
without delay. This is where the “theory of probability”, success and failure is born.
in every case, faith in a happy accident is strengthened.

Errors in estimates for public events are often so obvious
significant due to “unforeseen reasons”, which does not depend on the “estimate” itself
nothing remains. Remember our “Constituent Assembly”, which wore out
it was reduced to pitiful rags on the way from the tailor to the customer. A. what
what remains of the German “estimate” for victory and world domination?.. And what
will remain from the colossal “estimate” of the “real conquests” of the allied estates
realists?..

However, “theory” is not nearly as blind and helpless as it might seem.
seem "happy"okam" and "successful practitioners", If, the leadership
Following her instructions, we took a closer look at life, we learned a lot
could have already been predicted and prevented.

However, until humanity has developed a universal theory
actions based on universal human business practice, our science
can perceive events, but is not yet able to direct them, can
see, but cannot prevent it. . b

It doesn't matter if this is the case. In great world endeavors there are mistakes
must be grandiose, touching all of humanity “to the quick”, to no one
not allowing one to be only a “spectator of interesting events” with impunity. To everyone
I have to drink this “interest” to the point of tears, if not blood. Now
pet hut s ‘edge. .

And so, when humanity thoroughly gives itself bruises and
will hurt his knees, tripping over the “theory and practice” of the current diya,

it will instinctively feel the need to rebuild everything on a new basis

knowledge and all practice. Everyone needs this. And it will be done.

*
. # #2

To create the collective unity of humanity is the practical task
what should our theory, labor, proletarian, concretely substantiate?
the science of building life.

There is a lot of space here and a good excuse for civil strife between theorin
© practice. It’s pointless and absurd to argue about the shape of the dome when you just need
dig a hole for the foundation. That's true. But the opposite is also true:
when you plunge headlong into a hole, do not forget that someday you will rise above it -
for the joy of the world the dome of the building stands and on it is a victorious banner, like
a symbol of the end of suffering, as a banner of liberated and united labor,
26 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. №06

We won't see this? Yes. But if we quit our jobs because of this,
then they won’t see it for a long time,

As a general rule, someone who begins a great work is deprived of joy.
see the fruits of your efforts. But, someone needs to start. It remains for us
The wise question of the Talmud is always valid: “If not us, then who? And if
not now, then when?” Cathedral of St. Peter's in Rome was built almost overe
three hundred years. Only the fifteenth generation of builders raised it
cross and could admire the spectacle of the whole, But still it rose. And it was
something to admire, something to be proud of for all the living and the dead,

Wise and strong are those who began to dig a hole and went down in the name of the future
high goal, and those who, risking their lives, freed the dome from the scaffolding, are happy
real heroes. None of them separately built a cathedral, but 66 were
strong participants in a great cause. And other tens of millions in
at the same time they only “lived and were” and disappeared without a trace, like dried grass,

Palace of universal human living truth, uniting living experience
a single family of creators and builders, it will be much more difficult to build one. Consumption
There will be immeasurably more sacrifices and efforts, Quite a few people will die in
premature feuds “0 dome shape”, pushing each other into the beginning
foundation hole. This hole will be filled with the bodies of millions. Blood and tears
they solder everything together instead of cement...

But what greatness! What a beauty! All the cathedrals and palaces of the past
will then seem like an unnecessary and uninteresting toy, preserved from
"good old times", b

However, not too “kind”. Rome wanted to be universal spiritual
ruler in the name of the transcendental bliss of all those who work and are burdened.
He combined the theory of heavenly freedom with the crude practice of earthly
power based on fear and violence: .

- “Hey, Peter is a stone, on this rock I will build my church.”...

Peter's Cathedral really turned out to be a heavy stone, which gave
imbibed free human thought and creativity to the earth.

But the living truth, having made its way to the sky, is already beginning to call for builders
to build his palace. The dead truth will take care of the funeral
practice.

And we will build a collective of humanity.

Humanity has already been born and begins to live as a whole. This truth
quite specific. The theory of collective unity becomes practical
business. Long live the construction of life on a global basis. Yes
Long live the destitute workers who bore in their hearts a living
andtruth based on living, creative experience!

Kh T. Sedelninov.

———_

Plan for the organization of Proletkult.

Proletkult is a cultural and creative class organization of the proletariat
Riata, as a workers' party—its political organization, professional
Unions are economic organizations.

<& Just as the party includes in its composition, especially in the first
steps of its development, only the political vanguard of the working class, its
elements are the most politically conscious, so Proletkulg should
directly include only the cultural vanguard of the proletariat, the Indian
striate, and, moreover, its elements are the most advanced and conscious in
culturally: the reasons are similar, but here they still apply
stronger. If the development of political tasks and slogans directly depended
from the weakly representative majority of the proletariat, then the political line
party would be determined by the level of this majority, and would not be the most

`
No. 6 PROLETAR CULTURE 27

pure and consistent expression of class interests and tendencies,
the party would not be the true leader of the class in its struggle. If only
the cultural revolutionary line of Proletkulg depended on the level of little consciousness
of the broad masses, Proletkult could not stand out among the cultural and creative
ical class process and organize pure forms into a harmonious whole
and the trends of the new culture, could not give the masses true guidance
in this sense, Hence the inevitability of some organizational restrictions
cheniya, u and

Other limitations arise from the fact that in cultural creativity
the role of sympathetic non-proletarian elements, more than anywhere else, should
be technically helpful. For his class spirit and character may be the basis
based only on deep penetration into the conditions of class life and everyday life,
which are little accessible to those coming from outside.

In its internal structure, the Proletkult organization should be
consistent embodiment of the basic cultural-class proletarian
principle, collectivism, i.e. friendly cooperation, andmust be
as far as possible is coordinated with the structure of parallel organizations as
political and especially professional.

1. Factory-produced Proletkult.

1. The main practical cell of Proletkult is cultural-
educational commission of the factory enterprise, standing on the platform
form of the First All-Russian Conference of Iroletarikh Cultural-Pro-
lighting organizations.

2. All active. workers from the factory workers,
grouped around the cultural and educational commission constitute the fa-
Brichno-Vavodsk Proletkult.

` 3. The cultural and educational commission must be elected, but if
there is no way to select it, then it can be selected by the factory
committee.

4. The duties of the cultural and educational commission include organizing
tion of all work in the enterprise and communication with regional Proletkults,

5. The cultural and educational commission meets at least once every
I share. Every two weeks a meeting is held with active employees,
and once a month a meeting of the factory Proletkult is convened.

6. The funds of the cultural and educational commission are drawn from the
meetings of the factory committee, membership fees and estimated allocations
vaniya from the regional Proletkult.

7. Every six months, the factory Proletkulg presents
regional Proletkult a detailed and motivated estimate (provided
progress and expenses) together with a report on its ideological, organizational and financial
activities, |

I. District Proletkult.

1. Factory Proletkults in large industrial centers
through the Conference they create a regional Proletkult,

2. At the head of the district ai is the district Proletkult Council,
It consists of 7 members elected at the regional Conference, 1 representative
to the driver from factory-Vavodsk proletcults, the district Committee of R.K. par-
gy, district Council, from district associations and centers (where they exist),
Trade Unions, Workers' Cooperation, Red Army and Navyand also revolution
lation-socialist youth.

7 members elected by the Conference constitute the Presidium of the Council „

as a permanent body.

4. The Presidium of the Council meets at least once a week. Sovot - 1st.
once every month, International Conference - 1st time every six months, b
26 ‚ PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No.

5. The responsibilities of the Council and its executive bodies include: organi-
tion of factory Proletkults, their registration with precise indications
reduction in the number of members, budget, size, nature and organization of work,
according to the decisions of the First All-Russian Conference of Proletkult, composition
creating a detailed and motivated estimate (income and expense)
for the entire district and a work report, which is prepared once every six months
belongs to the city Proletkult.

6. Factory Proletkults, scattered throughout the district, by
Conferences create their own regional Proletkult in the nearest industrial
nom center, applying to the centers of the professional movement.

T. Plan of organization, rights and responsibilities of district Proletkults in
in the district are the same as the regional Proletkults in industrial centers.

8. District Proletkults open departments in the following
order: instructor-propaganda, ‘club, literary, musical-
vocal, theatrical, fine arts, economic (required)
necessarily), physical development and professional knowledge. }

Sh, City and provincial. Proletkult.

1) District Proletkults in industrial centers through Conferences
created by the city Propetkult.

2. At the head of the city Proletkult is the city Council Prolet-
cult. It consists of 9 members elected at the City Conference
‘1 representative each from the district Proletkults, from the city Committee of R.K.
Party, city council, from city associations and thee (where such
available), Trade Unions, Workers' Cooperation, Atas Army and
Navy and Revolutionary Socialist Youth.

3. 9 members elected by the Conference constitute the Presidium of the Council,
how I constantly actgoverning body, ,

( 4. The Presidium of the Council meets at least once a week, the Council—1
once a month, after a meeting of district councils, city Conference—1
once every six months, after district conferences. ‹

5. The responsibilities of the Council and its executive bodies lie with the organizations
tion of district Proletnults, their registration with a precise indication of the number of volumes
the factory Proletkults united in them and the number of members in them?
budget, size, nature and staging of the work in accordance with the decisions of the First
All-Russian Conference of Proletkult, the compilation was developed in detail -
new and motivated estimate (income and expense) for the entire city and report
about work, which are submitted to the provincial Prolet-

‚ cult, and where there is none, to the Central Committee of the Russian Military
Proletkult. The Council appoints the time for the Conference of District Proletkults,

6. District Proletkults, scattered throughout the province, through the Conference
tions are created by provincial Proletkults,.

7. Plan of organization, rights and responsibilities of provincial proletkults
ze, as well as urban Proletkults in industrial centers.

8. Urban in large industrial centers and provincial Prolet-
cults open their departments in the following order: instruktoreko-agita-
tionary, club, literary and publishing, musical and vocal, theater
nal, fine arts, scientific and financial (required), physical
technical development and professional knowledge.

GU. General notes.

1. All-Russian Proletkult Conference on the basis approved
`All-Russian Council of Proletkult, composed of regional delegates,
city and provincial Proletkults.

2; The All-Russian Council of Proletkult exists on the basis of the charter,
then the First All-Russian Conference of Proletkult,
No. PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 29

3. Carrying out a certain organizational and ideological work plan, approving
founded by the All-Russian Proletkult Council, local Proletkults are
are given complete freedom in the methods of accomplishing assigned tasks.

4. All organizationstions should strive to live at their own expense,
especially if there are enterprises

b. Proletkult organizations must be territorially consistent with
associations of trade unions. r

6. For the purpose of contact with the Departments of out-of-school education Proletkult
sends its representatives to the local department.

The plan was adopted at the Congress of the All-Russian Proletkult Council on January 24
Varya 1919.
\

Foreshadows..

th Dirty streets of smoky suburbs
The city was besieged from all sides.
News of a new life is heard in them,
There the heart of new times beats,

Where the black chimneys smoke,
The lights of the factories sparkle brightly,
New thoughts are created there,
New songs, better days

By our will, by our labor

Everything we see around us was created

How long do we have to believe, how long do we have to wait,
How long can you suffer silently, powerlessly? s

No! We cannot, we will not remain silent!
With a bold impulse, a persistent will

We will make distant dreams come true,
Come boldly, sons of the suburbs!

Black pipes: proud factories
The city was squeezed from all sides. .

In these suburbs are the destinies of peoples,
The will and happiness of distant tribes.

Maud. Rubinshtey =.
1915 h

From the editor. This poem, modest in technical execution, is zvoluzhi
attracts attention from us, especially if we take into account the time of its emission
Sania, far from our days, 1915.

s +.
30 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

Uronics of "Proletkult".

In the province.

| This time we will depart from the usual

zhka nalnyh reviews. Ordered to treat only
washed, it may seem that
the authority of proletarian culture here, in
Russia is moving at the fastest pace. After all
you just read the news about the appearance of everything
new and new Proletkuluts. But, unfortunately
Leniya, these messages about the occurrence
the matter is only limited. Vogue why
The following are a few examples of non-
We believe that we have the right approach to business
very instructive

At the congress of trade unions we
have often heard references to the intelligentsia
character of Proletkults. It would seem that
this fundamentally contradicts the very idea of class
owl proletar work, and meanwhile
places from fashion intellectuals begin
organize Proletkults of intellectuals
same. For example, one of the first noted
Proletkultov-Orshansky, Okaz-
is called that’ local communist
erganization was forced to destroy it
twist Why? Yes because he was clean
intellectual organization. "It doesn't
was the most important thing that could make
live in it, the teaching of the working masses, in it there is no
$ there was a general guiding idea, a worker's idea
class." With such impostor it will become
Monetary phenomenon with which it introduces us
Oryol, where two Proletkults were organized:
Fdin - intellectuals. at the Council of the People
farming and other workers, according to
‘Lujaativé of trade unions. It's already
shroedel, further, which there is no need to go. Yes
here and in Yadrinsk Proletkult is being created from
representatives of public and government
official organizations and discusses the issue
© assumptions of a representative from the people's
court and decides it positively, Daleni
all these endeavors (intellectual pro-
Tariat in Plce) from the original Ire ata,

and even more so from the industrial,

With this abnormal phenomenon we mean
we clarify R and V Otherness, pro-
revealed by some when asking her
essence and our tasks, We are reminded of the
our conversation with artist-instructors,
who could not understand why they
art is not yet proletarian, not indus-
new days. They simply believed
what they are destined to do for the proletariat
ego art, This sharpness of collisions
even in organizational matters and will become
The dispute in Orel about is understandable. how to build
our culture, whether from above the intelligentsia,
or from below “without the slightest admixture destroyed”
pannoy culture", ‚

"You're angry and you need a clear understanding."
the challenges ahead of us. Well, and the intellectuals -
always known to be confused, and even in such
They have everything and 2ose. That's why we always
we try to distinguish between instinctive aspirations
zia of workers and the “sweet idea we need”
›logy, to our new word, new

verse”, from how they explain on the pages
gast writers have this craving,

Here in “Izvestia Zh.D, Council of the Perm Knot”
we read an article about writers who are friends of the past
Tariat (including Grigorovich, Yakubovich—
I, Ya.) and demolition... Pushkin. "Neither Russian
worker, nor Russian with Pushkin pain-
They won’t give you any price.” He, you see, only
I sympathized with the man. “Meanwhile, the plowman
finds in this work a lot of poetry, aesthetics
ical satisfaction that they do for
he finds his work interesting, exciting
and cheerful“, We remember the worker Deitch
in Andreev’s play “To the Stars,” which
treats friends with deep understanding
astronomer, of whom one lived many hundreds
years ago, & the other one was not born yet,
which only causes ridicule from the outside
intelligentsia. Or in “Izv. Orlovsky”
S.R. D.“ with an epigraph from Kant this is how they understand
cultural and educational needs of workers
sneeze: “1. It’s important for workers to get more
knowledge and less spectacle, 2. First
time to have more useful knowledge and less
stop stuffing your head with sciences and arts,
the latter pursue aesthetic goals.”

Let's contrast this with other lines. Here
from r they write: “Our life, life
working class, must be decorated with science,
art, should become attractive
and interesting." Or from Chistopol: “Workers,
overthrowing the abnormality of the universal
being, the yoke of capital, strive for your
perfection, Someone, perhaps, would
object to this, but the objections are
tive of the desire for self-improvement of workers
the masses have useless words against this
the mighty fail as the existence of a worker
class." We're talking here and awkward
poems like the following:

“And so, to the great dream of life,
Toward the idea of self-education."

But, despite all their awkwardness, in
there is much more variation in them than in all
overthrow of Pushkin or in decree-
meeting the needs of workers.

But this is precisely where everything flows
calls to end everything at once bourgeois-
a great inheritance in the family of the “Orenburg Iz--
news", "Proletariat and re-scientific
truths and consumes them. Need to throw it away
everything is old, bourgeois“, Hence the author you-
having saidopposes intellectual recipes
Comrade, against all these studios, etc.
koto! oh comrades the echoes have not yet died out
bitterness from the betrayal of the intelligentsia in
a time of short-lived white supremacy. Comrade
from Kazan at a congress of professional co-
Yuzov bitterly complained about the betrayal of intellectuals
tions, warned against the commissariat, where for-
strangers sat down. “Everything needs to be dumped into the mu-
trash heap. We must make sure that we do not
just listen to Chaliapin, and to fuss-
“Knock off your Chaliapins and Gorkys.”

It is necessary to promote amateur performances, and in between
those © places everyone complains about passivity
„

No. 6

Mayes, for non-attendance and non-fulfillment of the commitment
ty obligations, But what is the reason for this?
We saw above that among the masses, on the contrary,
there is a strong desire for knowledge
niu-sili. Obviously the whole question is
in the approach and in what is taught under
a form of proletarian art and sound,
The monopolies of all sorts of futurists have firmly captured
until quietly government-issued pie, obviously, came
it ends when they start getting stronger and
© there are protests against her
images of workers with cubic heads.

Therefore, it is impossible with greater satisfaction.

do not provide the following definition of fu-
rhyme in “Nizhny Novgorod Commune”: “Futu-
“rism—chaos and destruction,” and the opposite
the true art of the future is left:
“The harmoniously developed body of the working person
loveka, full of harmonic muscles, pre-
farthest from Paris, this immortalized para-
Zita, or Achilles, whose entire power is
directed towards an unjust cause - killing oneself
similar. The body of a working man - here
the ideal of future sculpture. Still, what
comes from decline, from the outdated old, everything
sick and perverted, all these decadences,
Cubism, Rayonism and Futurism do not have
no price for the art of the future.
Futurism will die along with the obsolete
bourgeois world"

Now a wave is spreading throughout Russia
construction of proletarian universities,
But if in Moscow it was necessary for this
creation is not a year-long intense
work, then in the province there is usually a new name
they begin to be called withold folk uniforms
universities. In Sormovo they complain that the
tpe departments of the state university
theta went completely unnoticed
barrels. This phenomenon seems harmonious to us,
since we appreciate the responsiveness of Sormovo
workers for war initiatives, we know how easy it is
was always created there even in tsarist times
exchange audience. And even more Fogo, in
Atkarsk at the opening of the new nvuki temple
the assembled youth, as usual, clicked
seeds in the hall, and the organizers timidly invited
or so that the working public could sign up.
This is where the crux of the matter lies,
A worker coming to the classroom and finding it
busy with the same intelligentsia, naturally
he is sadly convinced that his
‘proletarian republics are in
in someone else's hands, here the observer draws
the picture becoming commonplace: “Everything is clean
the public, and wherever you look, there are no inquisitive
the worker’s eye,” which is immediately noted
the wrong approach is purely academic,
and the lecturers themselves conduct their business like shills

ny prepoavatali (Llvny), So iso” costa-
given in Orel, but there the lecturer at least
try to chat as popularly as possible, and
the goal is clear: “To prepare conscious ra-
botniks from the workers, without taking them away from work
hard work." Inability to approach
let the workers go to work in a proletarian way, A
they rush to their audiences; so, in the Queen-
more than 400 workers signed up in two days,
and they are presented with such interesting objects
you, like “History of the Russian language and Russian
“intaxis” (Vyatka). Under such conditions, re-

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

31

The outcome is easy to predict. A. meanwhile the work
Why am I going? and for deductions; so, in Orel everything is for-
water worked one Sunday day © father-
draining all earnings for the needs of the proletarians
University, and in Tver to create
proletarian palace even a two-day stay
The calculation was carried out and gave 1,600,000 rubles.
“And here, as they write from Velizh, lies
arism in place of the old bourgeois science
will create a new, proletarian science of movement
revolutions, science of factories and production
Dov. Here we must teach how to approachin
phenomena and make a prognosis and diagnosis.”
Trade unions that created in Kuz-
netske Sarat. lips workers' university,
believe that now there are conditions for
creation of proletarian culture, proletarian
art, Workers' University will reveal
is a powerful factor in creating conditions
proletarian culture. The task is not
only in filling in the gaps, but also in
to become a creator

A natural laboratory for such creative
I'm talking about the river
club And in the provincial press we are more
in total we find articles and messages about
work of clubs. Chistonol residents believed that
“The club is a workers’ academy, where they will
pass the exam for the title of a person, in the knowledge
cheat, and a socialist. Some are terrified of Evo-
his club. Everyone go to the workers' club, and
together we will knock down the last one
stone from our path: darkness, ignorance,
dullness, hibernation, both with energy and with singing
International we will enter the desired
the holy of holies of all tormented mankind
of the kingdom—to the kingdom of socialism—through the workers
clubs, through libraries, through lectures.
Hurry up to become human." In the same
Chistopol employee protests against the
that they only accept workers, but they call
de work together. Influx of members
The sound of Tsovrov led to the club being opened
for communists and sympathizers, because members
new over 800 people. In Galich, expanded
they announce the start of work and introduce duty
members in the dressing room and in the buffet. When ac-
creative work produces the picture that
heaven is depicted in Rybinsk: “Everything is alive,
although sometimes it’s confusing and confused, but
sincerely, freshly and rightly, everything here is an impulse,
aspiration, fire." But even these impulses
sometimes they will leave interference: here is the story in Bala-
Gove, the club was overrun by an auto part. I. only
to the statement of a member of the Executive Committee, Comrade Sychev,
appeared in the revolutionary committee in-
conversation with the workers: “If the premises are not
cleared, then we will immediately deal with
Front and we will tell the workers 060 to everyone,” for-

=

ordered to clean the cultural premises.
The dead often grab the living, and in Vyatskoye
club" of commercial and industrialpuddling,
obviously, as a reaction, lectures © Russian
Sin gaksis are thriving - in the hall with portraits
Marx, Denin, and in others - kaotezh and motorcycle.

Proletkults cost differently. Oseben-
but we consider it valuable when this organization
tion was born after the conferences when the military
are illuminated from the outside in ppos—this is how
Proletkults in Tver, Kineshma, Ivanovo, -
and not! through the initiative of a group of persons, that
32
x.

leads to the collapse of false proletkults,
what we saw in the example of Orsha,

Next in line for Diya is now the question of
boleb close participation in the proletkult
building trade unions. Nh
the just closed congress succeeded
overcome the resistance of old prejudices
pike perch and pass a resolution that
center of the third form of the labor movement
is Proletkult, where they should pour
masses of industrial unions. They're coming now
congresses around the province, but about them - in travel

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

the next room when we finish them and

We'll let you know what's there. heard

Again and again we ask the stompers for places
send us all materials of their work
and report on your weekdays and holidays
and St, Krivtsov.

Proletarian cultural and educational

telnye organizations in the province.

Proletkults.

In November, according to periodic re-
Chagi, Tver Proletkult (Council of Prolet-
Tara cultural and educational organizations
ations) first of all raised questions
about general education courses, about workers
clubs, about proletarian youth and about pro-
flyer theater. Tver Proletkult air-
nickname after the trip of the Tver delegates
Bserussian conference and at present
time widely develops its activities.

On November 21, Proletkult held a meeting
“all those who worked, are working and want
work in the cultural and educational field
sti", the meeting was arranged "for the purpose of accounting
workers and for the ‘expedient distribution
division of forces." It attracted a lot of attention
nicknames Proletkult finds that it is “iri-
you can start your business with the ABCs, which is
first of all, he must put forward
general education questions"

Here we mustwatch out for the Tver
comrades, so that in your general education;
in their work they did not turn into vi-

‘ school department.

At one of the meetings of the Tver Pro-
letkult discussing the issue of creation
Palace of Labor, whereby the non-
hesitating to begin preparatory work

bots, announce a competition for the Dporets project _

labor and; in the spring to begin the very
construction site, .

recently the sound of the province of Prolet-
a number of conferences were convened by the Nults. Such
conferences were convened in Tsaluga, in Kli-
well, in Orsha, in Kineshma. In Orsha, between
By the way, the local Proletkult has been reorganized
Committee of the Russian National Assembly
partyma on the basics of amateur performances
working masses in cultural construction.
“Only under such conditions,” they say,
Organizers of Proletkult, — Proletkult
will truly become a proletarian society
deep culture and strictly class."

New Proletkults arose in Ivanovo-
Voznebensk, where the initiative in the matter was established
the birth was taken over by the R, K. party, in Vlce,
in Samara, where the organizers staged a very
a broad program for the proletarian

culture, in Perm, in Torzhok, in Penza,
in Tikhvin,

In December, Orlov began his activities.
Proletkulg.

Organized, by the way, an art section

°speech and journalism section. Organi-

The Proletarian Conservatory is called, at 1:0-
I think the center allocated 450,000 rubles. Ivdaet-
ate literary and artistic collection
"Red Morning". Proletcult Library
contains tens of thousands of volumes and
has extremely valuable and rare
okzempayarami. Tver Proletkult in de-
Cabret opened courses in painting, drawing and
sculptures, Between Troletkult and the department
formation of the town Council, a con-
conflict over censorship of plays, isolating
cultural work of workers of the organization,
It was decided that no institution
in a proletarian state cannot and will not
must censor workers' activities
organizations. Control this activity
Only the councils of these organizations can do this.
Orsha Proletkult at the meeting of the 18th
Kabrya Reshgiltake the matter of creation into your own hands
Institute of the People's University. Gulsky Pro-
Letkult took all the theaters under its jurisdiction and
pinematographs in Tula and the province. Section
museums Proletkult collects materials
for the Museum of the Revolution. In Yukhnov Omolenskaya
lips proletarian society organized
nulture, which included representatives from
all Soviet organizations. Leading
the role was taken by the Communist Party. Solved
open the Proletarian University. 'Orga-
Proletkult is founded in Ostashkovo Tverskaya
lips At the first meeting of the founders
It is planned to convene a citywide conference
trade unions and factory co-
meetings. The Chembar Executive Committee allocated
funds for organizing Proletkult

embar of the Penza province. Proletkult in
Klin opens classes in theatre, art
Pre-Christian and choral studies. In tetral
Several performances were staged at the new studio.
Unfortunately, to the repertoire, Research Institute
nomu for the proletarian theater, Proletkult
reacted somewhat peculiarly: they put on-
for example, the play “Dunka is being wooed.” Guberienim
Rotseviulta in Tambov opened a free-
naya proletarian music and choral school,

Some Proletkults organized
their periodicals. Yes, in Tambov
two issues of the magazine “The Coming A” were published
tour"; The magazine “UKnan” is published in Kologriv
Arts“, published by Dvoriv Nroletirsioi
culture; in Odratov—“Artistic Art”
news"; in Tver "Tverskaya Vgotnih Proletar-
skoy Culture"; in Samara - “Zarevo ba60d0v”,

Proletarian universities.

In November a series of lectures began in the proletarian
skih universities. Vologda Auditorium
university, according to local reports,
news“, varied: workers, employees
and students studying. In view of the fact that you
nyatiya v. the university requires a famous
training, the composition of students is predominantly
intelligent, in Vologda
hope that the university will appear
laboratory of scientific and practical thought

<
hotbed of socialist ideas, Chita
There are lectures for workers and Red Army soldiers

on current issues, VT s0- /

socialism and scientificwow worldview, In Tula
a project for a proletarian uniform is being developed
university with socio-social and natural
science and mathematics departments, To the point
organizations involved local cultural-
educational rivers and workers
weapons factory. Smolensk organized
there was a proletarian university named after
October Revolution. In the organization of uni-
University are participating V. party,
trade unions and local councils

. D. At the Proletarian University named after
Lenin in Orel, there was enormous interest in the lectures;
auditorium, according to the Oryol “Izve-
stii“, full of listeners. Lectures are taking place
very lively, the listeners are working, seriously and
greedily. Workers are treated in their university
with great sympathy, Factory workers
mechanical shoe crayfish contributed to the needs
university 1,823 rubles, workers of the Statler plant
694 rubles, city water supply workers 657 rubles,
workers of a candle factory for the second time 30,000 rub. and
t, d. At the Proletarian University in Livny
reading tips on political economy
and on the history of Russian literature. Held
meeting of members of all professional associations
unions on the issue of the need to join
students to the university of all workers -
Xia. In Tver, according to the local Proletkult,
a proletarian university must be dis-
gardener of proletarian culture. In general
educational courses submitted about 500
statements. The greatest difficulties encountered
work hard to find lecturers. In Penza
province, lectures began in two districts
universities: in the city. Kerensk and tor.
'Nizhny-Lomov. In you are supposed
open the Penza Proletarskaya Aka-
demy." The University in Sormovo is open
Sormovo workers. opened on November 25
proletarian university in Vitebsk, in
The opening of the courses took place at the end of November
social sciences in Syzran indoors
Workers' and Peasants' House. To the opening
proletarian universities have begun
in Velizh, in Ivanovo-Voznesensk, where already
opened. Factory worker course
owner: In Kuznetsk, Saratov province,

Lectures are given at the workers' university.

Byliterature; lectures also began in
proletarian university in Vyatka; number
listeners reaches 400 people, Worker
The university was opened in Balashov. In the prole-
Tara University in Tsaritsyn group
listeners consists mainly of
barrels. “Never in the whole world,” writes a local
naya newspaper, - they didn’t listen to a single professor
with such attention as they hatch
lectures at the Proletarian University." For
I signed up in two days, by the way, at uNoi-
over 400 workers and employees.

At the Moscow Pro, !Etar University
The lesson plan will be outlined as follows:

1) First year curriculum (prepared
literal).

In the curriculum mlkasatti lita hours

lectures; practical classes are conducted either in

Proletarian culture. No. 6.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

38

days when lectures are not given, or on special
hours (from 8:16 am to 8:56 pm).

Number of hours

NAME OF OBJECTS, in. ly

trimester,

Organization of oral presentation
and discussions ...,...... 2 1
Methods of written presentation. fucking
Ways to use literature
tourist sources...
'Mathematics about...
IV, her al
Introduction to chemistry... ....
Astronomy ini...
Geology in connection with geomorphological
Introduction to biology. ..... 1
Physiology of you -
‘Physiological psychology‚—
Introduction to Political Economy
NOMIA "her wife 2
Introduction to Russian history in
connection with the universal ...... in
Introduction to the Study of Science
socialism
History of the labor movement and
form of workers' organizations. 8
Forms of public ....

|

5 5
$65 == ==

|
[B
young |

|

=yyu

Ra |

]
nana
—

—
=
=
©
=
©

„Additional courses.
‘History of Literature. .....
. History of art. ......
Country studies, ........
Russian language (for Russians). .
Russian language (for foreigners).
Repeat arithmetic course.
Otatistina, tse o o
Drawing „.....
Drawing. g... ..
‚ German language, p.
English language. .....,.
French 'language...

O VO 2 na na a VO KON [| 54
53 O E en NN 4
5 6 VO on on a district

r

›2) Second year (main) curriculum.
Number of hours

NAME OF OBJECTS. U
trimesterre,
Mathematics. ri. her, Ri

Physico-chemical techniques are used
following (measuring application)
VI at OK VA

Methodology of natural sciences. -\1
Basic physical theories. . -- ! 1
Theory, evolution. her... No.
Biological doctrine of labor
al I Ze IT
History of social technology... 1 1 s

Machine production...
Political oconomy (basically

A O M NU
The newest capitalism. .... — @ V
Agrarian evolution. ‹..... — — 1
General theory of taxes and fi-'

but barely
History of public peace

views "C 8 4 -

Economic history views 1 1,

History of Law and State. — 1 —

History of literature and art 1 141
3
Number of hours

TITLE per week.

ITEMS, t
trimester,
History of social movements

pp. m. OE IT UI
History of work

forms of workers' organizations... 2? —

Socialist ideal...... |
Historical materialism. .... o B
15) 45215
Additional courses.
General organizational
"AA: aa

‘Repetitive. math course
Descriptive geometry. .... 1.4
Status and development of `production -

telny forces of Russia. . RA ry
Regional studies. .,...,. oo ve
Drawing...AA
orchania lis o SRO A
Slatistina, nya A
German language. se. a,
English language. g...ao
French, language, (bb gny, 2949

Note: ` The clock designation is

conditional meaning; exactly, -1 hour. per semester
means approximately 14 hour-long lectures, .
which can be read, for example, in
7 weeks, two at a time, and even at three or four
weeks, two hours each:
1/, hours a week means 6-8 lenziyit, d.

| Courses.

Evening work courses on politics
\‘savings, by. history of socialism and donkey
title, opened on December 9 in Gorki
Mogilev province. Organized in Nursk
the first proletarian technical courses,
The first lecture was devoted to modern
tasks of technology. In early December
in the club named after Donin in Ryazan are open
proletarian courses, the task of which
is “the education of Masho workers in politics -
in a technical sense”, V’K&zani opens
proletarian school of social sciences. Lek-
Tori invitedAshen teachers and teachers of all '
levels and ‘university, separating
the teachings of Marx and those who sympathize with communism
nists. At the Kopaevsky Workers' Club named after
Volodarsky; in Rybinsk open - evening
generally about educational courses. Workers 'course
opened by trade unions in @mo-
henske, } ON .

workers' clubs,

Workers' clubs grow No. 0 milestones in the city
Vakh, large villages and workers' settlements.

In November there would be a row of communist
workers' clubs named after Lenin; n Ryazan,
in Rybinsk, in Balashov, » Belevo, three clubs
in Yamburto and others, in Efuemov, Tula province.
The Proletary club was opened.

club "Worker" in Tver took place
meeting of factory 'library' councils.
At the meeting it was pointed out that there was little
number of club libraries, inaccurate
newspaper delivery by mail. Nartochny system
library workers study on their own
due to the ‘lack of instructors, Tula
the workers' club organized an excursion to Moscow,

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 6

.
Morozov-Communist club opened in Tver
"whose district, in Saratov Proletarsy
United Club in Memory of the October River ;
revolution organized a children's club and a club for
youth, Proletarian Children's Club from
covered in Perm, Jewish workers' club
named after Borohov {prominent figure of Socialist, Heb.
Slave. Parties—“Sert”) ortanize in Smo-
Lensk, In Nizhny Novgorod there is a special place -
mania is focused on the structure of libraries
at clubs. In Torzhok and in Vesyegonsk at
theaters are open in clubs and factories. Kuvaeva
A workers' club has been opened in Ivanovo-Voznesensk
named after the October Revolution. Conference
factory committees of Vyshne-Vo-
Lotsk district allocated 95 thousand for
implementation of cultural tasks, when ra-
Lectures are held in bourgeois clubs,
why workers show increased interest
n lectures on. political economy and
lectures. in literature, provincial
the press notes the huge interest in the clubs,
but also does not hide some sins. So, in
county clubs too much time
is given to dancing, and visitors to the working
nluba in Ivanovo-Voznesensk, for example,
complain about factorythe youth who
a noisy crowd bursts into the club, "amour-
hangs out with girls and doesn’t keep quiet.”

‚ Most clubs are opened by locals

committees of the R.K., parties. Some work
whose clubs, for example, in Gus-Khrustalny,
have_ requisitioned bibMote-
us 'in thousands of volumes and are tested only
lack of modern political and
reference literature. But in general, arrange
Club officials declare that it is impossible to -
find literature in the provinces and © extremely
inaccurate delivery of metropolitan newspapers,

In December, a number of new ones emerged in the province

‘workers’ clubs. Work is open in Rybinsk

whose club of water transport workers
called "Burlatskaya commune", on
Limovka and the harbor were sent to barge haulers at -
vyv, so that they go to their club, At the ‘club
there is a reading room, a buffet, and an organization -
wine choir section, In Balashov following
the communist club opened a workers' club
named after Lenin. The club has a children's
‘Hell for the children of workers. Agricultural workers
household workshops in Novo-Torzhekom
district decided to create a workers' club, 15 he-
The opening of the workers' club took place in December"
“Awakening” in Efremov Ivanovo-Voa-
Nesenskaya lips In Vyazma, Smolensk province.
ilsi workers' club "Collective"; arranged

and a reading room. Open Social -
technical club in Galich; December 13th was
›a lecture was given on the topic “Proletarian
culture." According to the Galicheks
"Isasty", the lecture was warmly received by the
speakers and ended in a lively exchange
iom opinions. In Kazan, under Alafuzovsky

‹ factory committee, opened work

whose club; the correct lectures began on
socio-economic sciences, In the club
"Proletary" in Tula gives performances for
workers of the corpse club. Workers' Club named after
McLean at Syzran station, which arose
December 11, sent greetings to the leader of the com-
Moonists to England--McLean. In Bezhetsio,

“in the workers’ club there is a number of publicly accessible
lectures, December 14 read a lecture
® The Great French Revolution. Pro-
letarian club in Cherdynsk, Kazan province.
organized a number of literary evenings, free -
ns for the proletariat. Workers' Club in Ry-
Binske ‘arranges revolutionary evenings
songs. December 19. the first meeting took place
Membership of the Central Club of Eletsky
Proletariat Workers' Club in Tsovrov
organized a number of evenings for workers,

Unions of working youth.

Mostly unions of working youth,
that arose in the province are dedicated to IE in-
to the international In Tikhvin a union was organized
working youth "TI International" with sex
tions of political propaganda, culture and
art and labor. Union of Working Youth in
Kaluga decided to publish a monthly magazine
cash "Azangard". In the factory village of Vd-
Remov of Ivanovo-Voznesensk province, union of ra-
Bochy youth set the task of zuni-
suppression of all kinds of vices, predis-
boats and ignorance"; arranged: bi-
library, reading room, meetings, etc., Vla-
Dimir Youth Union appealed to
to all youth organizations of the province with
an appeal in which, among other things, it says -
says “When we accepted the name
“1st International”, we threw back almost
to all the intelligentsia* But it would be great:
It would be a mistake to conclude that the organization
Only communists are accepted, we are calling
into it all those who fight for the kingdom of labor -
" Youth Union in Vladimir
a rally was organized on November 20, at which
decided to send a greeting telegram
German revolutionary youth. like this
sent a telegram to the German youth
march through Li@Knecht, the Yelets Union can-
lodge, the House of Socialism was opened in Kazan -
chess youth “with the aim of uniting the
"true builders of life." Smolensk Union
IT International is satisfied with youth
work performances, Troupe - 50` people. Row
Youth Unions - arose in Ivanovo-Vozye-
soiskom district, in Tver, in Saratov, where,
by the way, it was decided to organize only
working youth from 15 to 22 years old, students
those that are available will be highlighted in. a separate section
In Rybinsk, the union of the workers' and proletarians' youth
The CHI International lodge has developed
charter, by virtue of which new members are privileged
toil only on the recommendation of two members
union. In the Tula Youth Union began -
lListen to lectures from the “socialism” series. In Yelets
The local Proletkult opened the House of Youth
food. In Chistopol, in Slobodka, in Karachev
unions of working youth arrange co-
joint readings.. October holidays
revolution gave a significant impetus to
‚establishment of new communist s0yu-
call youth,

In December, the unions of workers, youth
Nikli in Bryansk, in Nuznetsk, in Galich,
in Sychevka (Smolensk province), in Rybinsk
{club of young communists), in Borisoglebek,
in Narachevo (Oryol province). in Sovetsk, (Vyat-
gubernia);, in Chembarsk (Penaensk province), in
Yulabuga. A district meeting took place in Kineshma

PROLET ARIC CULTURE

35

Congress of Youth Unions, Vladimir Union
convened youth on December 15 in Vladimir
provincial congress. The congress program included
questions about the current moment, about cultural
educational tasks of youth, about the movement
marriage of young people in the West and in Russia, etc.;
Grand opening in Kazan on December 14
The youth house, which united all existing
cultural and educational activities in Tsazan
youth circles based on proletarian principles
culture, Communist workers' unions
youth in Nizhny Novgorod and Pokrovsk
Saratovok, lips, stage performances and mi-
tings.
Proletarian theaters,

Recently, in the provincial pe-
the chatters began to speak loudly © proletarian
theater, finding that this question was raised
life itself. In many cities, drama
tic theaters are taken over by locals
Advice, however, of special workers
there are still few theaters. Communal Theater
opened in Lipetsk; in Pavlov Nizhny Novgorod-
skaya lips a theater for workers was organized;
in Nologriv, Proletkultom, a children's room has been opened
theater at the Gryaznov factory; in, Ivanovo-Voz-
a workers' theater was opened in Nesensk, at the factory:
The question of the proletarian theater was raised in
Tver local Proletkult, "Proletar-
the theater must be a theater of social
stical,” says the project, developed
Mr. Proletkult.—Creation of socialist
ical theater should be based on
desire to give the proletariat an opportunity
artistically, fully reveal your work
howlcollective “I” in theatrical creativity
honor, Dramatic working studio, -go-
The next step in the project is a free studio.
Here they should not teach ‘to play’, but should
only to develop and correct individual
performance of gabochikh actors in order to preserve
in them that spiritual proletarian Nepo-
mediocrity, which alone can
create their own theater in the team,
artistic - proletarian socialist -
sky theatre, All work in. there should be a studio
built on friendly cooperation.
The studio must be constantly alive
in connection with the Fabricio-zavodsky theaters
(Berg, Morozvovskaya manufactory, Russian-
Baltic plant), with theatrical proletarians -
mugs, take from there the raw actor-
material and provide ‘creative artists’,

The repertoire of workers' theaters is not always worth
at the height, Ivanovo-Voznesensk newspaper “Ra-
Bochy Krai" reports that local workers
This theater produces farces. “Mother-in-law to the house—
everything is upside down”, “Fatal Bracelet”; "Den-
‘the guy is to blame’, etc. After such siektak-
lei--dancing... r

For the repertoire. cinematograph in some
many cities of the province were finally converted
Attention, Cultural and educational department
announced in Tver; so that all the films
matographer, as well as plays staged on
stage of city theaters, Should be
registered by the department board,

The question of the proletarian theater was
sacred articles in some provincial
ny newspapers. "Kurskaya Beinota" finds that
the repertoire of revolutionary Nye’ is exhaustive

r 3*

36

so far known as “Weavers”, “Gardener’s Dog”
and "Dawns". Penza "Izvestia" recommends
plan to pay more attention to the proletarians
sky theater. The Dumas also call for more
more attentive attitude to the repertoire.

By January 1, 1919 there are, according to data
provincial press, provincial pro-
letkults 11, district 13, proletarian
18 universities, 22 workers' clubs, unions
working youth 26, working courses 10.

Report of the Kolnik Proletkult Petrograd-
“what province.

The year of the Great October Revolution has expired
tions, towhen the worker with his calloused
wrested power from the capitalists with his hands and
dictated his terms to them, Difficult, without-
conditionally it was difficult for people who did not fit
able to manage the state ma-
tire, but they spent a whole year fighting
with the OO counter-revolution, speaking
nikas, abuses, still came out
winners from this seemingly non-
strong fight. All Russia celebrated
great day of the anniversary of the October Revolution
revolution. Hastily prepared for the celebration
"Proletkult" mountains. Kolpino, inhabited
exclusively by workers.

The theater department staged on the 7th and 8th days
and November 9th. a number of free performances, and
namely: on the morning of the 7th a children's performance was given
takl for older children - “Revi -
Zor", a comedy by N.V. Gogol, in the evening of the 7th
play "Bad Shepherds", op. Mirbeau, and 8th

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 6

in the morning for younger children “Revi-
Zor", in the evening "Bad Shepherds". On the morning of the 9th
“The Inspector General”, in the evening “Marquise de Maupas”, op_
Ponsara. "The Inspector General", "Bad Shepherds" and
"Marquise de Maupas" was performed by artists
"Proletkult" with the participation of all students.

In addition, vocal and musical students
cal department, from which it is organized
chorus, were performed before the start of the performance
takley International", "Varshavyanka" and "You
fell victim,” and the Great Russian No.
an orchestra made up of students from the music department.
Students took an active part in
preparing city decorations. In everything
days of festivities functioned free of charge
Proletkult cinema "Svetoch" - during the day
for children, and in the evening for adults,

In "Proletkult" in Koliin there are
the following departments: theater, literature
literary, musical-vocal, dispute-
creative, artistic, decorative-linen
noah, and also cinematic. h

They record in all studios very, very
Willingly, for example, rock out in a theater studio
110 people, in musical and vocal 120 people
catcher it. d. b

Soon the literary department
the reading room and library open and they go
preparations for the release of the magazine “Ezheme-
syachnik”, for whatliterary department click-
zero cry, calling on everyone to accept
participation in the magazine, publishing articles in it,
stories, poems, etc.

Preparations are underway for the opening of classes
in the art and sports departments.

Bibliography,

“Proletarian Collection. Book first.
And, the publishing house of V. Ts. I. K. Soviets. Moscow,
1918, 314 pp. Price 10 rubles.

Starting the publication of “Proletarian Gathering -
nikov", the editors, as stated in the preface,
strives "in accessible artistic
form to reveal the social ulcers of the past,
still not outdated, and outline new milestones,
leading to the kingdom of socialism."

“This is a great task before the revolutionary
proletariat. She requires colossal
tensions of the creative forces of the proletariat and
unifying them, and most importantly, clear and
a clear understanding of the ways and methods,
which lead to the resolution of one of the sa-
difficult tasks related to © social
istic revolution, namely socialist -
technical education of the proletariat, and then
and all humanity.

The collection we have read convinces us that
the authors of the collection not only do not allow
the task intended by the editors, but also not
take her

In order not to be unfounded, and also
warn others against similar mistakes
side, let’s at least look at what is especially re-
our socialist consciousness.

Let's start with the cover, against a white and red background.
the sky towers two smoking chimneys of destruction
Shanny plant. Of course, the idea of

proletariat Narabrynn Myainzheky with fa-
brick, factory and revolution. Their images
most of all they are painted on the cover of the pro-
Letarian Collection; but that's not the main thing,
The essence of the matter is that through
these symbols express our social
stical idea, and it’s on this cover
expressed one-sidedly and fundamentally wrong
right. Destroyed factory against a white background
red sky... But is there really a revolution?
only destruction? Where and how are they expressed?
creative impulses of revolutionary pro-
Tariat? No sign of this idea on
you won't find it in the picture. Maybe the author
wanted to express the idea that the revolution would destroy -
vein sourceworker exploitation - factory.
This is too primitive, not scientific and
is fundamentally wrong, Introduction to production
the production of cars was accompanied by a decrease in prices
wages, workers destroyed machines,
as a source of disaster; but everyone has long been aware
that the evil was not in the machines, but in the conditions
development of capitalism; just like we don't
we can also represent the plant as a source
disasters; it's not about the factory, it's about the conditions
production. If earlier, with capital
tical operation, the plant was depicted
in poetry a vampire sucking human
blood—now, during the construction of social
istic society, a factory-temple, in which
No. 6

form a new one is born and develops,
a natural and most beautiful life. And if
at the moment of revolution they are destroyed and perish
factories, we deeply regret this;
we need to take them into our own hands and reorganize them
on socialist principles, but in no way
do not destroy in case. M. Bakunin cogra
wrote that “the destroying spirit is the spirit
creator"; Marxism this paradox has long been
. refuted, showing that in anarchist
movement, the “destroying spirit” operates in
all, and the “creative spirit” sleeps bravely
sleep.

In full accordance with the cover and co-
the collection's uneasiness. Socialism fights
individualism; in place of the heroic,
critical thinking personality socialism
put the class and the team at the forefront.”
The editors forget about this and put it on
example, a poem by E. Konobeev, where
discusses over sixteen lines
and only I, Niya acts... These are the lines:

"In a whirlpool, splashed with foam,

I am steering the boat into the world to come...
With the soul of an eagle, bold in flight,
With hot speech—a sharp ax—

I call for rebellion, I call for victories.”

“I am young. I'm young. A babbling stream...
Everything, everything will ozone my flow...

Get away, get out of the way, you trembling coward,
Sail the shuttle into the world to come.”

There is absolutely nothing in these lines
Iroletarian; similar motives in Bur-
zhuazno-civil poetry can be found
take it away, in front of me lies the “Spring Salon”
poets,” I turn a few pages and
I meet poems by Yu.Baltrushaitis. He-—ti-
typical bourgeois poet, but that’s why he doesn’t
makes it hard to believe...

“to the wedding lot,
To the kingdom of the hour without pain,
In the nose leading through the darkness
Eternal Dawns
In the twilight, singing about the stars,
The promising light of Sunday
Miracle of suffering...
...Into a crushing hammer, ,
Creating into flame and sword,
As a sacrifice to creative trembling,
T is the gift of justification.”

Comparing the poems of Konobeev and Baltru-
Schiaitis, we do not see ideological
difference, True, Baltrusha is more talented,
“more modest than Konobeev, and he doesn’t exhibit
I'm on my first voyage, but it doesn't give
he, like Konobaeev, has the right to a place in the pro-
Letarian collections. .

If we take “Prometheus” by Aeschylus, which
written 460 years BC, then in it
along with the beauty and power of verse you will meet
‘tite and the revolutionary that captivates you
“quiet. To the threats of Hermes, Prometheus proudly
"answers:

"I will not give up my terrible execution

For the happiness of being sent by Zeus;
It's better to be a slave to my rock,
Than Zeus' servant is kindly faithful...
Let him throw a lightning beam,

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

37

Let the white-winged blizzard throw snow,
Or the earth will be shaken by a clap of thunder,
And the whole universe collapses all around...
Nu the thought that in fear there is little

sultry
I have bowed under the yoke of arbitrariness...
He began to beg to save me from execution—
`Oh, never |'

How much would the “Proletarian Assembly” gain?
nickname,” if only one poet could describe him like that
express your revolutionary in different and passionate ways
tionary impulse,

Here are the poems of I. Nazarov. Author for his
Yesni

< “Taken from loved ones

Grief, groans and sorrows are heavy"
and assures the reader that he

“I survived them with my soul,

And made my dream come true" -

Maybe this is so, but a poet’s dream, alas...
very far from socialism. Nazarov vego-
blows on violence and oppression and even many times
shouts “down with”, he wants every cor-
worked hard and did not live at the expense of others
wow... and all this just because

"God's day is clear,

the sun is shining joyfully;
quiet village huts,

everything is blooming, fragrant, ^
the shoots are lush in the fields,
the rye is ripening and heading,

Since there is such grace all around, then ‘the author
fulloh bewilderment and confusion melan-
holistically (such is his “muse”), asks:

“Why is there hatred in our hearts?
A terrible people are nesting.",.

Oh holy simplicity!.. Such simplicity sometimes
can be life-saving for a person, but not
for a socialist, of course, but for a tradesman
the average person.

It's not Nazarov's fault that he is not sophisticated
in theory. Capital ve given him time for
'self-education. But the editors... It is necessary to...
Guess that the people who took up the editorial
pen, know how to distinguish socialist
ideals from the bourgeois understanding of social
listical society, in which everyone
They will set aside a stall with a plentiful portion of food.

Nazarov needs nothing else in the future, he and
now “never knows sorrow and boredom”
“and all day long he sings songs at his workbench.”
Happy man! I pour mine
it even infected the venerable editorial staff.

On page 30 Oleg Pan sings
"Power of the Earth." The author sings praises to the arrogant
cities, but he simultaneously declares:

“I will never give them my soul,

She is under the spell of the earth.

Praise be to you, temples, monuments, towers,
Museums of the life of the past battle,

But aren't the golden arable lands nicer?

And the smell of emerald pine needles,

But isn’t the trill of songbirds sweeter,
The sunset that yesterday threw roses into the rye,
And the starry night, passed in dreams,
Dawn, love and horror and trembling,

th
38 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

There is, of course, just as much socialism here’
as much as any arch-bourgeois poet.
The author may be right in preferring “love”
shudder and tremble" and "bird trills" to the temples, towers
yum And museums of military life, but he is a country-
does not notice the working creator in any way
a new life in which hymns are composed
uprising and a new future life is forged.

Strange story. All authors of the collection
some kind of damage. illness: other
suffers from holy simplicity, sometimes blind
happens, but he is forever deaf and eats alone
dreams... ‚ C

There are hymns from the Book of Hours in the collection:
They are so characteristic of Proletarsky
Collection" that we allow ourselves to bring
one of them in its entirety. It is entitled “Holy*
oh God."

“Like the svetlg in Khiam ‘wet robes,
How quiet are the songs in the evening hour!
Censerthe gray incense flutters,

And the dark Most Pure Savior is affectionate...

Holy God, holy mighty, holy
immortal, have mercy on us!

We offer prayers to you, Savior,
Hear, O God, our sorrowful 1
The harsh wind extinguishes the lamp,
The lamp of faith in the hearts has gone out...
Lead us, O God, into the depths of Paradise,\

At your last hour, at sunset...
Looking at your quiet face with longing,
We pray to you, O Meek Savior:

Holy God, Holy Mighty,
immortal, have mercy on us"

This is what the “proletarian” poet D. writes (emz-
Novsky The defeat of this stronghold is divine
Unfortunately we are lost with our point of view
revolutionary socialist flight -
riata, , ‚

When King Volot asked U’ the wise
King David, which’ city to all cities
father, the latter replied: “Jerusalem to everyone
the father of cities, because in him is the navel of the earth.”

With this navel sticking out, it sticks out in
collection of poems by D. Semenovsky.
He received his intelligence, undoubtedly, from
Khoist himself, Christ the King of Heaven himself,
nogo, as stated in the Dove Books. And
It’s difficult to approach here with the ideology of mar-
xism,

We have far from exhausted the “pearls” of collecting
Nika, but the review was delayed, and we took out
We are waiting to say at least a few more words
and about the external and artistic side of “pro-
flyer of poetry" collection,

Here's a sample:

ac.

“(The) screams cried in hopes of the deceived,
And their trills rolled down in cascades,

And powerless tears, sick smiles

Woven into whimsical fabrics.

() love about the flashed phantom

The cello remembered something

And she forgot herself in a charmingly sweet languor."

This is what the “proletarian” poet I. writes.
Belle, what unconscious poison is coming...
boss-conscious, foreign-criminal in its own right
Let's burn the measles. Is this really how the proletarians write?
Chinese poets?

saint

Ru-.

MB

yy
And all this happens because, like
writes I. Filipchenko, glorious new power
the world for happy futures is created from

"old debris". Unenviable happiness
I just want to say with a heavy sigh
“Take my grief, fast river, with you.”

The proletariat is depicted in the collection as
a knight and a hero, like a wandering Kalion and
horde, ,

Neither the editors nor the authors, obviously,
there was time to think about what\ is
Kaliki and Bogatyrs. Kaliki, they were in
the most ancient time of the spiritual and light person
of origin from the ‘princely squads’
high class of population, traveling
with0 his servants and retinue according to the saints
places. These were noble and rich people,
in the family of the Novgorod boyar Vasily Bu-,
Slaeva, Later we found ourselves in the category of Kaliks"
and people of the lower class. But what's common
between the Kaliki and the proletariat, it’s difficult
unravel,

No less strange is the image of a hero, a knight.
As you know, the heroes were transferred to our
unequal struggle, “with alien power”, “with
by the power of heaven,” As the knight runs up to
grief, {and an eye less"; when someone else runs up
hey, he'll lose an eye; when the third one runs up,
"So and an eye less," And so the heroes died out
in Holy Rus'.

Princely squad bot
how is it known from Letonisi, with the invasion
b r. We think that the proletariat, not
despite the attack of all the imperialists,
winner of the modern revolution.
Moreover, the heroes were protectors

Andretvo died,

Except
princely druzhina administration, and sa-
my word is a hero in wide masks usually
derived from the word god, rich, and denotes

tea. them a warrior, endowed
hundreds of dreams...

All this interferes with drawing
in the form of heroes and warriors.

It is also absurd to compare the proletariat with
horde. We think of the proletariat as a class
strong in his organization, which
builds future life on collectivio-organ-
low-level labor, and the horde is something chaoli-
logical, unorganized, wild, like those
Tatar hordes, which in their time slaughtered
or Rus', Unattractive image!

Finally, we got out of the quagmire. noesin
and with difficulty we got to prose.

All the topics are old, they were rewritten a long time ago.
chewed; true, they are grammatical one way or another
otherwise any aspect’ of life re-”
lutionaries, but revolutionaries-intellectuals
Comrade; genuine proletarian sentiments
in the things presented it, but there is .
life of the intelligentsia, which with this co-
Ron is of little interest to us now,

If the environmentand the best poems are
poems by V. Aleksandrovekoto “that among the Iro-
"Sentenced" by S. Gubseva-Orenburt"
skiy, N

This is the “Proletarian Collection” book} -
wai. This is a sample of what it is
the worst falsification of proletarian diss
teratures,

supernatural

proletariat in

In, Tolaneniy.,
`tarskaya

№0

"Messenger of Life". //policy logs, on-
uni, literature and art. No. 1. 1918,
Edition Vser. Center Spanish Com. Soviets.
Price 5 rubles. I

Problem. this

magazine———“to summarize

everything that was done according to the October revolution
tion, to make a selection of everything significant
give to what has already been achieved

theory and ‘practice of young forms of proletarianism’
peasant life, illuminate the life of those
numerous organizations that co-
set the proletariat on its victorious path for
diverse achievements of its great
goals - the establishment of socialism",

The appearance of a magazine’ with such tasks
quite timely; it's time to let you down
results of our work and put it in all
their manifestations on solid theoretical
ska soil; this is especially important for
numerous ‘cadres of Soviet collaborators’
kov, which are the most difficult economic issues
mic life and politicians allow from
“pure reason”, and in order not to end up in
I move my tail, sometimes they steer to the left
"common sense"

Unfortunately, as far as one can judge
No. 1 of the magazine, the intentions of the editors are not
showed off even to a small extent, Yu did not
just couldn’t sum up any
side of our fast-paced life, but
failed with sufficient completeness and brightness
ability to draw and reflect it on the pages
of your organ. ‘ :

Despite the numerous departments of the journal
Nala, I would like to state that the articles
are random in nature, and the authors do not
comprehend and do not grasp the deep essence
of the phenomena of life, slide along its surface
superficiality, which is why the articles ‘have the character
newspaper creativity is a success: .

“On the theory and practice of young forms of pro-
Tarsk-peasant life" to speak seriously
ge have to. There will never be such a life
mo ke touches chione hundred proletarian life,
the time has not yet come for this. This life
must be caught like grains of gold’ in
ore, systematize and unite, and
only then is it possible in one form or another
theoretical. its processing.

In this review we will focus on those
articles that address issues,
always facing. our magazine; this is
articles about the fate of proletarian culture and
oh, proletarian art.

These issues are dedicated to” with

rest -

Nogo comrade K, Zalevsky. They hit nae

its confusion. We must protect her,
so that the proletarian can get to the point
affairs.

The author correctly states that the cult-
tour of the proletariat. consists of his
class 'science, class 'art and
class ethics. But we can't pikak
understand, especially after the work of K. Kautsky
“Ethics and materialistic understanding
history”, the author’s statements that “prose-
ethics - the reflection of his mental
develop itih.” ;

Kautsky on the origin of ethics is highly
stuck in the following positions; "Moral
new law. is, of course, a product of social

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. E

natural human nature; moral standards
are, of course, products of special
public relations, This point of view
we understand and understand; judgments same‘K; For-
lonekogo are not devoid of idealistic shades
dentsius,

Separating proletarian culture ‘from social
alistical, the author strictly distinguishes between them”
He claims that it is socialist. cul-
tour can develop “only in an environment
socialist system." This is at least
Not exactly at all. The author would be right if
proletarian culture was the culture of the
Bogogo class, exclusively as a class
struggling, and only, The author writes: “development
proletarian culture is one of . parties
process of this (class) struggle." This is one-
outsider and narrow point of view. Proletar-
Chinese culture is not only a class culture
struggle, but also the culture of the collective will erase
poverty; which is especially important for us. This
foundation" of collective cooperation
solders both sides of the coming nultura
in aboutdin merged, indivisible and historically -
an inevitable process. And 'there's no way
draw a fundamental line between pro-
flying and socialist culture:
These are two stages of universal human culture:

We do not quite understand the view: the author and
on art as the “ideology of free development”
human feelings, perception of impressions
ny, everything that surrounds us.” In future
lines, the author himself feels insufficiency
such a definition and ‘adds: “more precisely:
it (art) constitutes a ‘generalization in
images of feelings of that social environment, in
the environment in which one is born, raised,
the artist lives and creates.” However, neither
another definition, neither both’ taken together,
are not exhaustive, If in ‘first-
the author wanted to emphasize the origin
art’, then he falls into the same mistake as
and in defining proletarian ‘morality’;
if the second emphasizes the essence of the claim
ties, then again not fully enough
scientifically; the organizing role of 'art' is omitted"
property, which we especially must point out;
to 'eradicate the bourgeois' view of ma
art as fun and entertainment.

The following provisions also sound strange:
“Of course, reproduction in images ‘feel’
the proletariat is a much more complex matter;
than the organization of experience." .

We are supporters of strict mozhim and no one
Thus, we cannot take feelings ‘outside’ experience.
For us, feeling is a transformed experience,
for the most part" 'individual, and sometimes
and social, she is an artist with great talent
embraces life in all its fullness and
complexity. :

The main idea is also subject to amendment,
what to reproduce in the images of Chuvetva prole-
tariat is more difficult than organizing into a scientific
system of his experience. The author is obviously paraphrasing
expressed more than once our position
knowledge that intelligence can. think zi
proletariat, but not to feel, But he ‘up-
Steal from mind that we have the spotlight
lies in the main process of active perception
understanding and comprehension of life by consciousness and psyche
hikoy, but his attention is focused

th
40.

per cent, restoration, reconstruction-
consciously or unconsciously perceived,
but this is a derivative process, second-order
row.

The indicated ill-conceivedness of the question is very
apparently not accidental, since elsewhere
magazine, precisely in the article by KN. Nraynego
"Fine Arts", our view
art is contested, although since 0r0-
cooing,

Article “Labor School” by S. A. Shr-ich
written superficially; it's not at all clear
than our socialist labor school
will differ from bourgeois labor
schools. In addition, many very complex
and other controversial issues about the organization of labor
in a new school are decided by the author without pre-
evidence, the social
stic character of the school,

All that has been said, however, does not prevent us
recommend the magazine to the attention of readers,
“Proletarian Culture” helps to develop
and sums it up. one side
life, revolutionary cultural education
nium of the working class - "Bulletin of Life" on.
trying to sum up his whole life. B
in this regard we will replenish each other
friend, than more than that "Messenger of Life" in
understanding of the tasks of the proletarian
stands, in general, on the right point of view-
nia. The magazine can play a big role
if he doesn't guess so much about the future,
how much to sum up the past and present?
present, as promised in the article from the editors.

V. Kunavin.

"The Coming Culture". Proyetar magazine
a lot of creativity. Publication of Tambov Pro-
letkult. No. 2. December 1918 Price. 2 r.

In the previous issue of Proletarskaya
Cultures" we have already noted the magazine Tam-
Bovsky Proletkult, Number two does not give
such material that could change
expressed by us in one direction or another
opinion,

The same shortcomings in the stories of I. Mokhna-
Cheva and F. Sovy. They are written as before
lively, exciting and simple, but old
the approach to the topic does not highlight these stories,
Judging by them, we think that both of these authors are not
will be able to give something new, in the proletarian
spirit; the old one, which they own, is strong
keeps them in its templates.

The same advantages of articles. All 'they wrote
sanity concisely, but clearly, with full understandingI eat
basic principles that have to be
be guided in resolving various
issues of proletarian culture, - theory -
technical and practical, large and small.

In connection with the Conference of Proletarians
Cultural and Educational Organizations
Tambov province worker Powder fluff
raises the question of the creation of Proletkults
by district and on the regulation of work in
various kinds of cultural and educational
circles, commissions, clubs, etc.

Until now, the work was carried out at your own risk.
and risk, was not controlled by anyone, by anyone
did not unite. "This state of affairs
The conference will have to end."
"She will have to speak out with all her might
proletarian voice; no room for separate

PROLETARIAN CULTURE,

culture.

No. b

work in our environment, but there is only a collection
tive work." b

On the same issue, L. B-a writes: “Not
it is necessary that all departments involved in
publishing and cultural-educational

activities, listened to the leadership

to the great voice of the construction of Proletkult...
otherwise everything is done without any system, without
plan on a national scale and
often in complete contradiction with ideals
working class." Indicating that the governing
role in Proletkults should belong to
Communist Party, the author at the same time
time does not close its eyes to the fact that “her
steps in the field of ‘cultural construction-
properties leave much to be desired,” and
therefore “Proletkulg remains pure
dictatorship of the proletariat in the field of creative
of socialist values."

Putting forward organizational issues, 1. B-a
emphasizes in full agreement with the resolution
tions of the All-Russian Conference, which pro-
Letarian cultural and educational organizations
nizations must establish mandatory
material support for Proletkult.

The magazine contains articles: “Proletkult and
extracurricular departments", "Brief overview®cultural
tour life in the Tambov province", "About
literary studios Proletkultov", "Re-
revolution and art" and "On world art
svetstvo". 1

One of the articles simultaneously examines
question about collective creativityquality This is this
the burning question is in his room
Our magazine has a special article dedicated to it.
And here’s what the Tambovites write about this:
comrades: “It is clear that now the collective
creativity cannot be understood in such a way that
all, for example, one hundred studio participants
take part in. simultaneous composition
some story, Experiments in this
board can be made, but in advance
it can be assumed that they will gain
Chances of failure. Maybe very soon
we will get there, but for now we are still
too individualistic, we're all slim-
who are different, we feel and understand a lot
different, that’s why the work is written
new together, collectively, will be, throughout
probabilities, motley, contradictory in their
their individual parts, non-artistic."
This point of view is quite consistent with ours,

The review by S. Kluben is interestingly written
about “Flowers of Resurrection” by A. Pomorsky. On-
it was written with enthusiasm, sincerely and truthfully;
advantages and disadvantages are noted,
they are great without flattery and causticism, but how
is due to comrades leading one bo0-
rose.

Sincerely welcoming the expansion of the circle
Zora of workers' psesia, comrade S. Tuber
writes that “the flight of the proletarian muse for the pre-
the affairs of factories are associated with great danger
snostnost", "in a return to the motives of the old
poetry." Now proletarian poetry finds
is still at the stage of conception, but poetry is
the zhuaz world is strong due to its centuries-old
maturity and temptingly poisonous with colorful
overripe period of decline. We are quite
We understand the author’s concerns, and yet we
must, without waiting for better times,
No. b

to focus on the horizons of our poetry, embracing
not only political life, but the whole
working life:

Comrade, Tuber noticed in the poems of A. Po-
maritime notes bourgeois individual
"techical pessimism and the presence of bourgeois-
no egoistic ideal that people dream of
lovers; but he not only noticed these
features of A. Poe’s poetry that are alien to the proletariat
marine, but also knew how to explain them as
Lady of the old culture. `

Magazine “The Coming Culture” ‘in its own wayth
appearance more modest than the Moscow “Gorn” and
Samara `Zarev Zavodov. He yields
in size and variety of material. But
‘it has its own dignity that we are special
appreciate; the magazine doesn't have that intellectual
plaque that can be felt on the magazines
Moscow and Samara Proletkult, in
he has more ideological integrity, which he has
the latter is replaced by an unpleasant self-
‘confidence, narcissism and’ fearlessness
gentle dedications to each other, sometimes
even in the same room. m

} *
"Factory" Firewing". Collection of proletarian
Enis of Writers. Publication of the Moscow P rolet -
Hulta. 1918 80 pp. Price 2 rubles. 60 k.

Moscow collection of Proletkult in
inferior in many respects to the collections of Petrograd
‘comrades.

It is completely unclear why the collection
wear" the name "Firewing Plant", ©0-
the abusive verses in it are in no way
do not develop the general idea of the collection. In collection-
Nika even ‘there is no unifying
ideas. The editors mechanically collected the poems
The most varied moods. With one hundred
rona, the victory of labor is glorified:

“The victory of labor is inevitable,
If anyone says otherwise, he will lie.”
Noah (V. Alexandrovsky).
"In sheets of crimson iron
I read the call to the interstellar journey,”
(M, Gerasimov).

On the other hand, the workers are rushing to de-
fenya and abandon the city:

“I’ll throw the torod. With a free song
I will return to you, villages and fields,
And on your powerfully free chest
I will fall, my native land.”
“And without you, my diamond fields,
.... I can’t live,”
(I, Eroshin).

Such collections cannot contribute
development of ideas of proletarian culture. Mas-
“The new worker is completely at a loss as to who
Who to believe: Aleksadrovsky or Eroshin.
Unless class instinct tells him
‘An answer, then it will remain without. answer.
In the future, when agriculture becomes
in the industry, this kind of perplexity is not
There will be places, but at this historical moment
ment, when there is a struggle between the proletarian and
peasant ideology; they are inevitable.

Compilation of collections requires great
sensitivity and caution; almost always not
®they must be provided with appropriate
atredisLotium, figuring out new and old

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

t

motives of proletarian poetry, nurtured
in one historical setting or another.

There is no need to talk about individual writers.
convenience. This collection is nothing new
doesn't add to what we were talking about,
them on various occasions before,

From the artistic side, poems of various
dignity; There are some that are completely weak.

The collection is divided into 4 parts; "Enthusiasm"
“The Rumble of Factories”, “Lyrics”, “City”. In the location
the division of parts does not show any logical or psychological
chological sequence, "City"
represented by three poems, from which
of which not a single one reigns over the city, especially
modern city.

A.O.

‚ S. Malashkin. Muscles. Poems. Edition
"Red House". Moscow. 1918 38 pp.
Price 3 rub. E

S. Malashkin's poems were written under the influence of
poetry 9. Verhaerne and W. Whitmon;
the collection is dedicated to the memory of Verhaeren and
covered with his poems;

“Open up, or break your hands on the door,
You, spark, in the radiance of the rising dawn,
And no matter what fate promises,

Through the ages we are drawn,
Hastening, gasping, unknown force
Go ahead.

The author took these verses very well. They
accurately formulate the entire content of the book
Malashkina, The author does not analyze individual
important aspects and moments in the life of a worker and
his struggle for his future, for his “but-
new life,” which he pictures for some reason
“turquoise” and “blue spring”, and glorified
represents the struggle of labor, the movement in general.
Ironizing intellectual poetry,
he writes:

“Oh, should I, in the echoing silence,
Count all the spots on the moon\
And you can’t hear the roar of the capitals!
I see: in Lisbon, Rome,
Berlin, Vienna, Petrograd,
Chicago, London; Tsargrad, ,
Rising clouds of smoke to the sky,
Raging uncontrollably
Hundreds of working muscles
Days and nights
« For metal

By temperament
They hit with hammers,
They forge a new sun,
Life is forged
Nut", b

‚ The author is all in power

buildings, He sees:

"...,, Genius before me
Meadows, forests, fields and steppes
Entangled in rails, as if in a chain,
With your mighty hand...

proletarian na-”^

As a true proletarian (the author is a worker
Sormovo plant), MalAshkin Zidit spa
exclusively in the working class. K
He addresses him with the words:

"Hey, workers, be brave,
More fun
In the ardent creativity of labor
Build higher than the city
And in moments of praise
Decorate cities with bows
Brighter than blood"...

From the side of political poetry, it is indefinite
denenna: the author paints the future in the form of “evo-
butts,” but this “freedom” gives away. liberalization
mom, democracy - socialism in it,
little is felt, Poems, apparently, were written
before the revolution, they do not have that strength and enthusiasm
Ziauma, which are inherent in our days, and
The themes themselves are quite monotonous and old.

The best things in ®bornik are;
“Go to the holiday” and “7Kenshchina”.

Should not have been included in the collection “God-
relative" and "Egoria". These things are absolutely
are not in harmony with the rest of the content.

A few words about the external side of style
how. Like M. Gerasimov, S. Malashkin loves
bit ‘use techniques: “sung song-
nyami", "wind-swept", but he has
it turns out somehow hard and not always
somehow. .,

There are unfortunate images like:
“the black threads of the heavy chains are torn”;
the image of chains, and even heavy ones, does not fit with
and presentation of © threads.

In the poem "Democracy" there is
lines: p
“For the fact that from your heart to me your blue-

binogo

Life-giving light is pouring in."

It’s unlikely that a dove’s heart is capable of this.
Actually, Dove is one of the stupid and useless
useful birds: these are “bourgeois”, as we called them
in prison. Dove may be most likely
SYMBOL of saiti mentality and ilodo -
twists.

The images are old, not ours, and not empty;

"People, look
Light threads stretch
Paths to God
Temples are being built
Tainetv,

Ideas,
Equalities
Your days":

close

The very poems. often need ‘careful
no processing, otherwise you come across places like
the following:

“What are they standing on the panel }
And they pour tears over “Paul”... (“Go to
holiday").
May, sung with songs of celebration,
him..." ("On the flock").
"(ridge), eavesdropping on your dogs,
And watching the muscles play”... (“Loader.”)

"Cathedral

S. Malashkin hastened to publish his
poems. However, this is the common passion of the workers
portswriters, And for this painful
passion they, including S, Malashki,
will be ‘melted in the future, when
will be worked out. No., actual artists
kov words and. when the now published poems
with their imperfections they will be a reproach,

A, 0:

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

№0

S. Yesenin, “//reframing”. Poems
Publishing house "Moscow Labor Artel"
artists of words." 11th year of the 1st century. 68 pages.
Price 4 rubles. : |

The new publishing house is very
very sloppy, they united in it
intellectuals from the village, just intellectuals
awnings and, unfortunately, one or two workers...
For example, it is not at all clear to us that
could unite M: 'Gerasi mov with P. Ore-
Shin and S. Yesenin. Iervyi—collective
whist, the second poets are individualistic -
intellectual sentiments.

In his “Transfiguration” S. Yesenin studies
“blue peace thread” to weave into. your curls.
Peasant Yesenin, having visited his ideal
shiy at the University of Shanyavsky, form-
translates like this: to

“I want to be quiet and... strict,

I learn from the star by silence.
Good with willow trees when you're tired*
To guard dormant Rus'.
It's good in this moonlit autumn
Wander through the grass alone

And eat ears of corn along the way

Into the impoverished. take your soul. x

expensive and

None serious and consistent
the communist will not be able to reconcile himself with the desire
nyami of the author of “Transfiguration”; communist
does not seek “blue peace”, he burns with fire
red enthusiasm and creativity, he does not
dreams of wandering through the grass “alone”
I'm used to feeling like a member of a team
and he does not regard his soul as if it were a sum
beggar, on the contrary, in her he ‘finds enough -
exactly the strength to fight not only © intellectual
Penta saccharine idealistic worlds
buildings, but also with a stronger enemy,

In S. Yesenin’s poems there are not even “healthy people”
peasant sentiments, although often
also remembers the “mare with a red tail”
and calves, and males, and much more from the
the course of village life.

he

He has

"Red moon as a foal
Harnessing to our sleigh...
"An emaciated, skinny male
The dawn howls over the earth.”
“And above the world from an invisible staircase,
Ogleour fields and meadow, |
Having hatched from the heart of the month, >
Kukarekpuv, the yetuh will fly.":

} \ (:
Even the God so often invoked by the poet

“But to another above our arching
Vepukh do not see my cow...”

It is possible that lovers of such “exquisite”
noah" tsoevii grimacing her intellectualton
there is; but to the working class it is absolutely
not needed. In our difficult, in our great
opa only interferes with the creativity of a new life
and annoying.

S. Yesenin thinks, of course, otherwise, He
proudly declares: p
“I’ll stretch my legs before Egypt, .

I will strip you of horseshoes of torment."
"Bighorns to both poles
Vonyueya ‘with pincers of hands, -
№0

I'll press the equator with my knee

And under the storm and whirlwind weeping
In half our mother earth
I’ll break it like a golden roll”...

Something “terribly delusional, Why bother?
to Egypt or dig into the snowhorns
ponies? Isn't there another thing that's more reasonable?
nogo? But this is not enough for S. Yesenin; he's still
wants to press the equator with his knee so that
I want to cut it in half, Is it possible to do it?
is this ‘intellectual boasting’;
the poet said long ago: “Good things are destined for us
impulses, but nothing can be accomplished,” Pain-
she. S. Yesenin wants to go into a crevice in the earth
push through the dream “hair-starry, like the sun”
brilliance, chapter." Look, citizen,
lest the earth crush you.

As the reader sees, in all this there is a passionate
nom brede head and legs in the foreground
Yesenin, his person, he will “shake up the worlds.”
This is an intelligent individual
alism. Not only the proletariat, who... by
the author is alien to everything, but even the peasant
the people whose son he loves himself great-
part, long forgotten by the poet, as if
free and powerless crowd,

S. Yesenin, like P. Oreshin, is very co-
has a sensual attitude towards religion.

"The body of Christ is the body,
I spit it out of my mouth...

"I'll pluck even God's beard
The baring of my teeth."

“I will lick the icons with my tongue
Faces of martyrs and saints...

the poet writes,
And yet without the help of the saints he cannot
make do. His cricket is singing

“About how the Mother of God,
Throwing on a blue scarf,
At the edge of the clouds
“Calls the calves to heaven.”
The author is silent, but we admitwhat
"calves" quite willingly go to the "cloudy"
paradise,” but the “donkeys” turned out to be more stubborn. Scientists,
contrary to popular opinion, the assertion
They say that the donkey is a very smart animal, he
just persistent and stubborn,

"And full of pain and

There on the outskirts of the village,
Mother of the Blessed Virgin
A donkey is whipped with a rod."

anger

He won't because he
"It's boring to listen to
The flap of invincible wings." .
In a word, S. Yesenin, like I. Oreshin
alien not only proletarian culture, but
and general revolutionary enthusiasm. Rasko-
rushing to Egypt, you can’t do much.
To make it more unctuous, the cover and the first
The sheets are typed in psalter font. ›,
to
P. Oreshin. Red Rus'. Poetry. Edition
V. Ts. I. K. Sovetov. 116 pp. Price? r. 50 k.
On the pages of our magazine in passing
It was noted that the poems of IP. Oreshina ve have
no relation to the future’ brighter

tree of heaven

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

43

life. On the contrary, the port is often looking for savekia
from revolutionary storms in a mysterious society
relations with the world inhabited by antels, archangels
lamas and other heavenly powers, despite
to his emphasized negative attitude
attention to the rituals of the Christian church.

They tried to defend P. Oreshin
ry intellectuals, having still little adapted-
committed to socialist convocation, iro-
outgoing; He was even sheltered by the Publishing House
V, C. And, K. Sovetov, and yet his poems,
as the editors of Pravda wrote (the organ
Center Com. Ross. Com. Par.), are “sub-

fake ‘for revolution’, “fake ‘for revolution’
re-invention,” and overall it turns out to be a mish-mash.
from “revolutionism” and “hypocrisy”,

If the editors talk about “white
Guards book" 1. Oreshina, then only
because on the cover it says “Publisher-
stvo V, Ts, I. / K. Sovetov.” Similar
circumstance prompted us to take up
feather P. Oreshin has no place among the proletarians
publications, and yet he and his closest
colleagues are trying their best to accept
participation in proletarian magazines. ‘In the near
in the near future we’ll try to give about
these poets a special article in which
it would be possible to find out in detail
they came outfrom among the peasantry, from
rushed away from her, taking the negative from the village,
and joined the decadent in-
tellitence, imitating A. Bely, A. Blok
and other poets alien to the proletariat with their
petty-bourgeois individualism, theoretical
skilfully recovered by Ivanov-Razumnik,

Maybe there was a rumor about the White Guards -
government is too harsh, and Oreshin should be put
on the same plane with B. Savinkov, collaborator
nickname Kaledin, Krasnov and others, Nelda,
however 'nevertheless. it is theoretically plausible
nice.

Ambiguous and cautious lines
random. They are founded. It’s not for nothing that the poet
talks about his village songs - elovami
N; A. Nekrasova: m

“No, we are no worse than others, and for a long time
The grain has filled and ripened within us.”

If so, then we have to answer for
every line, every word.

For the poet, the proletarian revolution is “red-
py 0es”, which tears and destroys. From
he runs from him, he declares so

“I’ll go along the feather grass roads,
I'll disappear into the dark fog...

And there with heaven and Bot
I'll see you... and I'll move on."

`We are not particularly sensitive'
we will not be together with the author of the sigh
to hate about the decision he made, not
let us lift up our eyes to “mountain” over that world
due to the fact that the author is a stranger in the prole
plate of the revolution, he is committed to its completion!
understands and does not try to comprehend:

“I see: from the faded haze

Trampchuteya noise todtody.
Where is the freedom?

The old men are bringing their sons again

Along the red vine...
44

vi I:
`

"The old mother is crying
About my own son:
- And who are you thinking about me, little light,
left?
And who are you looking at, old me?
osta-a-avil?”..,

And as it should be in the poetry of IP. Oreshina:
"The Sorrowful Christ from the Icons"
He's looking at us."

The October Revolution, judging by “Dere-
Zonian songs”, brought the village a new
a war from which the village is again suffocating
and groans; and the revolution itself is nothing more than
"Siertonos".

"Cain dances over the ground with a knife
joyful dance...
Everything is under the red knife...

The author grieves very often, remembering
"red hat" and "red knife", but he
does not notice the “white bandage” and the “white knife”
ours andsocial traitors. However, there is no
nothing incomprehensible when the author writes about
<yourself: s

"The black force is increasing,
Recruitment is underway.

Blossomed like a white flower
My rifle."

There are only two colors: white and black,
White belongs to Oreshin; and black
The color has obviously been replaced by red.

Oreshin is with the “people”, but his “people”

“I was exhausted in difficult trials,
I suffered, I got sick, I’m not happy with my will.”

“Russians did not think from God to any other direction,”
“what a man,” says the author; but God
< the first days of creation was the enemy of man-
''eternal freedom, for the desire for it first-
High people were expelled from paradise.

The poem “Above the City” is interesting:

“In the chest under the shirt is the royal lead
bullet.
'He will not die in his chest of breathless resentment.
'No prison, no exile in a pine coffin
didn't fall asleep
No slave life, no joyless
hard labor"...
"Nun in Black Psalter Truths"
pulls...
Zavbdsky trumpets pour out a high glow.
"Desperately the wind on the roof rattles the iron,
The nun's voice yearns for a world not here.
On the street somewhere the Marseillaise is thundering mightily—
The bloody fire over the capital has not yet gone out,
The crowd roared: death to palaces and freedom
` from the shacks.
“Long live our councils, ministers
dolo-oh!
Gone. We left. I sit above the abandoned
as a friend,
Over. a pine coffin, simply upholstered.
muslin",

There is a lot that is unclear in these lines. If
the crowd welcomes “our advice”, the “tsar-
“Which bullet has nothing to do with it. In those days bullets whistled

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. {

No. b

red and white, and the ministers were social

Compromising, But he was killed and what a pu-

lei? Obviously, the “forsaken friend” is smitten
red bullet, because those who in those days
fell from white bullets, did not call for nuns
in black pull the psalter truths, This
P. Oreshin's grief for the murdered White Guard
or in the best, but unlikely, case,
social traitor, sincere and deep and
expressed in strong verses.

Maybe 'these lines shouldn't'
bring? The poet has wider
generalizations to the unfolding struggle
for the socialist world,

He writes about revolutionary Russia;
"I seeyou. crucified on a black cross
strife,
I see darkness in the minds that crucify you.
The predator is circling over the body of the wounded
hawk,
Your pleading eyes mourn.

/

They tear and... banner and freedom in revelry
wild,

Creating outrages in the thickened
darkness"...

Understanding this, the poet calls to

reconciliation:

“There will be enough strife and bloody dishes,”
However, he feels, and maybe

realizes that black and red can be reconciled

it’s impossible, and asks:

“It will protect you,

revolution,

Rus', our mother
dear,

Half-drained with blood, he will take you down from the cross,”

We will tell the author: black and white
the army will not save revolutionary Russia even
together with the Anglo-American-French
with bayonets. Her salvation is in alliance with the communi-
istic proletariat of the world, and P. Oreshin
still doesn't seem to know it.

All of the above forces us to
know Oreshin’s assessment in Pravda in essence
true to the state, and poetry’ to its revolutionary
unnecessary and even harmful to the people, as
poetry of an individualist intellectual, although
would have left the Saratov village,

Talk about any’ meaning of P. Ore-
There is no room for the future culture:
with all his guts he is in the dark past,

V. G-b.

S. Srednekiy. "Fundamentals of newspaper business."
Publication of the Petrograd Soviet, 76 pp.,
price 8 rub. 80 k.

“Fundamentals of newspaper business”—that’s the title
a small brochure by S. Sredinsky with a belt
ignorance; "Quick Guide". Next on
on the same cover: “With article by N.; Denina-—“0
character of our newspapers" and with an appendix
“Charter of the Union of Soviet Journalists”,

The book begins with an article by Comrade. Denina, from
which I allow myself to give a few
excerpts:

“Inordinately little space is devoted to construction
to the creation of a new life - facts and facts on
this account", "Why not 200-400 lines
do not talk in 20-40 lines about such pro-
simple, well-known, clear, already learned
largely by a mass of phenomena.
No. 56

like a vile Anglo-Japanese invasion for the sake of
restoration of the sacred rights of capital,
like the clashing teeth of American billionaires
Derov against Germany, etc., etc. d."
„More economyiki. But the economy is not
in the sense of general reasoning, scientists

reviews, intellectual plans, etc.,

rubbish. No, we need the economy
sense of collecting, careful examination and
studying the facts of actual construction
of a new life."

“We do not know how to conduct class struggle in
newspapers, as the bourgeoisie led it,”

Comrade Lenin ends: “Less poly-
tic chatter, Less intellectual
Chinese reasoning, Closer to life. By-
more attention to how work and
the prestyan mass is actually building something
something new in your everyday work. More
checking how communist
this is new." th

After this vivid criticism of Comrade. Lenin, in
Kiige S, Sredinsky wanted to find something
be bold in the sense of organization and construction
aspects of the newspaper business in the conditions of a new life.

oh we find something annoying, accept-
tive. The preface says: “The task
of this book is to serve as a brief
guidance for newspaper workers in
provincial"

But the problem is that now it’s getting hotter
Another question is what type of gas should be created?
Zegu, so that the masses read it? There's a lot about this
argued at the congress of Soviet journalists
and even passed a resolution; but she, unfortunately
laziness, cannot update the tits locally
newspapers and create something vitally new, we
necessary. S. Sredinsky in his short guide
tells the newspaper business how to do it
write advanced where and in what place
place them, He teaches® “Advanced duty-
not consist, as all newspapers usually consist -
new articles, from the introduction - no more than one
quarters of the entire article—and the conclusion in which
rum are given based on everything previous
conclusions,” etc. He then explains how qi-
sub-advanced jokes, and then general articles
character, etc. Finally, you will find in
book of clichés from the first page Petrograd-
skaya "Red Newspaper". But in it just
the material is not distributed according to
receit of O. Sredinsky, and in terms of its importance
content and topicality. And articles pi-
jokes are not the way they are taught in management;
a quarter for the introduction, a quarter for the exposition
feducation, a quarter for reasoning, etc.

I forgot comrade. Oredinsky, what should you avoid?
Regal Comrade Lenin.

Proposed brochure for provincial
nothing for local newspaper workers
will not give, What they need is not a retelling of
bourgeois newspaper and its layout, but we need
a book in which she would find resolution
all fundamental and organizational
questions that face the Soviet
provincial journalist, just yet to speak
rushing onto the stage. That's not enough. It was necessary
raise the question of newspaper reform in general,
and this is just not the case,

Talking about everything on the go, the author sends
reader and manual published by Suvori-

PROLETARIAN. CULTURE.

45

nym, - “Typesetting and typotraffic business”, in itself
talks about the newspaper business, as an explanation
There are cinematic films in the provinces.

Therefore, there is no guidance, there is something
something like a list of printing houses and newspapers.
terms:

o book of newspaper business is needed as necessary
required school of journalism, training in-
constructors for the province,

This book should be written and maybe
not just one, but several persons specialized
we will talk about various issues about this

"Glow of Factories". IMonthly lit-
raturno-gub magazine Samara
Proletzhulta. Book. 1st. 1919 Price 3 rubles. 50*-

The magazine "Zarevo Zavodov" should be
ranked among the best magazines dedicated to
concerned with issues of proletarian culture.
According to its design, it approaches mo-’
forcible “Horn”, also trying to be
a chronicle in the struggle for the future culture,
but in content it is poorer, and advanced
the questions are interpreted too generally, and therefore.
and monotonous. The editors are aware that “Grui-
and proletarian writers and artists,
united around the Samara Prolet-
cults, took upon herself the difficult task of resolving
solving the latest issues of the proletarian
culture." She is waiting for reinforcements and
guiding instructions in its activities, &
while he performs a great and difficult task,
as far as one's own strength allows. And
if we write in the following lines
about the shortcomings of this book, then only because
that we are eager to see the magazine on the floornom
sense corresponding to its symbolic"
name “Zarevo Zavodov” and we hope to
bring in all possible reinforcements.

The tone in the magazine is taken correctly, and if the time
sometimes the music doesn't go well, it's only because
that in the choir there are people who are strangers to us, who
with all their sincerity, they cannot
fall to the beat thanks to its special psycho-
logic, infectious, but alien to the worker
class.

The magazine contains poetry, prose, articles,
dealing with issues of painting, music, literature
teratures, and finally; bibliography.

gihi have well-known advantages -
mi; they are sonorous, there are original ones
rhymes, there are some good images; they are better
many poems appearing in Izvestia
Sovdepov, but they are not independent, too.
Who can see imitation in them, but me.
hundred a kind of richness, so
characteristic of false classicism. Us, on-
example, far from satisfying the poetic
Resolution of M. Gerasimov “The Glow of Factories”.
It is too saturated with Balmont's poison.
and White; there is no logic in this poem
unity, there are contradictions
vivid images, sometimes heavy and direct
still unsuccessful,

‚ Here the author recalls the clouds several times*

“Here are the crushed piles of clouds”...
“I crush the ice of transparent clouds”...
“Clouds of smoky black soil”...
„Horseshoes made of steel and gray flint
The growing clouds were flogged...
‚ CALL

46

We have absolutely no idea why the clouds
act as “smoky black soil”,
then like “transparent. ice", then just like
“crushed piles” or “gray flint”,

Most likely this inconsistency
explained by the pursuit of appearance
‹dashing than for its content and logically-
stu,

Elsewhere Gerasimov writes:

“The factory's chimney vault is split
And dusted with milky dust.”

“It’s required here. too much modernism
imagination in order to understand how it is possible
the vault of heaven “sprayed with milky dust”
pour", $
"Above the smoky sky
The juice of the bloody dawn splashed."

The juice splashed... This image is unfortunate, it
the author needed it to rhyme with the word re-
tone, but the reader compares the bright rays
morning dawn with splashes of juiceand a few
disheartening.

The excerpts from the poem by N. Pa-
Vlovic "Seraphim", - a poem dedicated to
M, Gerasimov, who in turn’
N. Pavlovich consecrated the poem “Monna Lisa”.
According to the good old custom: “debt in payment”
red”, the name of the young poetess who brought up
based on symbolism, as one notes
and the authors of an unnecessary journal article,
met before in jingoistic
bourgeois bodies; now she is in Samara
and tries to develop proletarian culture
round, patting the sweetheart on the head with the refrain:

“I waited. Darling, darling,
Our marriage canopy is ready"

ov

mentoring proletarians in
and bibliography department.

We are not against using intelligent -
Russian forces, but only in the role of technical

‘performers and specialists, and not as managers.

drivers who set the tone.

N. Pavlovich’s poems are also not independent
bodies, and there is nothing proletarian in them,
These verses should not have been interfered with, so as not to
transform the proletarian magazine "Future"
into the journal of the dying past type of vor-
Nezhskaya "Sirens"

N. Pavlovich assures that

“Darling will wait for a ripe soul,
The soul ripens like a raspberry in the wilderness.”

Darling, maybe he can wait... But cri-
tick-fet; k›kitiki are suspicious people,
cling to every word. They won't be surprised
thing and you won’t confuse the “blue knees of the pre-
bowed heavens”, or “refracted with honey”
blaze of light"..., The heroine of the poem Tanyusha Ubi
of course, with the right name in hand, On this point
‘forges, and we can move on to the next
main department, articles department. Latest ‘countries’
I give" not only because it is too general
and schematic, but also with the precision of the formula-
both the main provisions and this
minor. ‹

It's not true that music
Elthusiasm." Is it just that)
the proletarian does not experience moments

yk feelings and
Ziaama? Isn't it
H

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 6

g social struggle and personal life and not
will survive them in the future in the struggle
with nature? Aren't these aspects of life
will be reflected in music when they reflect
Are you interested in poetry? It is true that the proletariat
“has extraordinary enthusiasm and
soulful bwisdom", we are even inclined
strengthen it, but we know that the adamant
iron will, does not exclude severe
fat loss in case of failures and defeats.

In the article “On the tasks of the music department”
the author writes: “The task of the choral department is to
det-again revive valid pva-
native song and give it its due place
in the everyday life of proletarians",

About the Russian folk song A. S. Push-
kin wrote:

From coachman to pen poet

We all sing sadly. Sad howl—
Russian naughtiness, well-known omen—
Starting for health, for peace

Let's just put it together. Warmed up the sadness
Harmony of our muses and maidens,

But I like their plaintive melody,”

We need a new song, with another one faster
nim. It needs to be created, This song will be
as 7. A. Mey wrote:

“Blissful, victorious, free,

Pogorodnaya, village, popolnaya.”

Folk song

“In blood, in tears, baptized, washed

It didn’t just come together on its own,”

“It was washed from the wastelands with snow - rains -
com,

It was caused by fire smoke, soot,

A blizzard swept it away from the damp graves.”

The new song is being celebrated, as N.A. dreamed.
Nekrasov: |

"Cheerful and clear,
Like a sunny day:
Isn't it wonderful? Isn't it scary?
Oh time, new time!
You, too, dream in song,
But how... A noble soul!
Finally, laugh."

<

We consider the passion for folk songs
belated and even beforehand. Her motives
capable of reopening old wounds, disturbing
dark memories and bring back anti-pro -
lethargic moods of nessimism, despair
and weakness of will, with our bias towards this
ness.

On the subject of fine arts
the author recalls the words of V. Morrgs: “The art
work should not only awaken in slavery
the masses have a new range of needs, but
and bring them to such intensity that
beauty has become just as vital for them
a necessity, just like bread.” These words are half
words of deep meaning, raise questions about
volume, 3#k to make art accessible to everyone
to the great masses, so that the latter can be educated -
stood on him, surrounded by him in all his
everyday life, and this in turn you
shakes another question, more withfalse—o
forms of art, about decorating torodon,
buildings, squares, both sculpture and

No.

wall painting, If the bourgeois society
society was content with temples and museums,
then this is not enough for us. Art must pro-
nourish our whole life, and not serve
great entertainment on a holiday,
when they have nothing better to do they go to look
museums. This side of the matter, unfortunately, is not
touched upon in the article.

Let's note some minor details along the way.

The statement does not sound like a Marxist:
“He is a great genius because his soul is embraced
embodies the soul not only of an entire people, but also
of all humanity, and not only of its era,
but also of all eras." If anyone doesn't understand
our remark, we refer him to the collection
Nika “Essays on a realistic worldview”
niya", There the question of shadows and heroes is clarified
‹ completely exhaustive,

It's time to stop comparing art with "drive-by"
noy" region. Closer to the ground, quickly
let's resolve. task.

The statement is incorrect
“Whose cultures are “dead.”

The author states what he does not know.
In his Lectures on Aesthetics, Taine points out that
the Greek mastered the form so much that he had no
there have been rivals so far; in its
in a clean and clear sculpture he reflected the whole
completely clear, calm, unclouded by anything -
his own worldview, Aristotle,
promising a brilliant future to the young man, he says:
“And you will be © full breasted, white co-
with broad shoulders, well-developed legs,
walking around in a wreath of flowering reeds
sacred groves, inhaling the aroma
grasses and budding poplars."

7A nodding body, capable of any musn
the Greeks placed this matter above all else; and the EU
Actually,
sculptures cannot be said.

Finally, we must stop at bi-
Bliographies. This section is in our magazines
very ‘responsible, his tasks are reduced to
not to “smash”, “to praise”
or “a condescending pat on the shoulder
author”, and in the most careful way ana-
lize what was given to public goods -
risky court, analyze the weight from the outside
side, and from the inside, from the g side
bins of content, and depending on the requirements
bovaniyaunfolding events
ries; here we need a certain proletarian
point of view, the objectives must be clear
critics, and they also change, and this
Valacha cannot, of course, fulfill the
Russian aliens from a hostile camp.
Reviews signed by N, I. are in stereo
sleazy, bureaucratic character. Who and what
will teach, for example, a review of “Two Lives”
NI. Stepnogo?.. This is a random product
nie; the review itself is formal
character and unsubstantiated, but where is the author, on
for two lines, trying to speak
about the cheerfulness of the proletarian culture,
there is confusion, N.P. is glad that A. Bely
"one of the greatest Russian theorists
etiha", together with the prolotariat creates "but-
I drink the desired culture,” It is true, of course, that
And, Bely is a master of verse, but’ when he, and for
him and others, “raised in symbolic
lism”, begin to “create the desired cultural

that the forms of the Greek

l-

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

what about the “dead” forms of Greek?

isto-^

47
tur", fear takes over us, and we are consoled
one thing is that soon the proletariat will be liberated

from this “creativity”, and the intelligentsia eats
barks her servant as she served before
bourgeoisie.

Necessary. note that N, P, have a specially developed
great love for Moscow creativity and
some distrust of Petrograd, where
the best have just formed and are working
proletarian dogs...

Not quite’ the editorial is written well
"To the moment." Instead of ‘brightly
note that proletarian writers and
artists cannot be separated from workers
class, the editors write that the proletarian

writers 'have gone through a difficult path of struggle
together with the Russian proletariat, “This
the unfortunate word “together” somehow rips it off

proletarian 'writers from this
you can't do it

`/The magazine was published well. Unknown for
what is in the cover picture among the clouds and
some strange things are visible through the smoke
monsters, ugly, but not terrible.

V. Polyansky.

"The World and Man". /Troletarsky lite-
cultural and artistic journal. „Edition
Kolpinsky P rozhetkult. No. 1. January 1919
Price 1 rub.

"We live in a smallin a small town
we're hanging around a big factory,
corner now on our land, which is not
I would feel at the center of the world; and no
no data now for the resident himself
a previously noticeable corner of our Feder-
of the Soviet/Socialist Republic
tov don't feel like a human being at all
noble and proud meaning of this concept
tia,” this is what comrades from Kolpino write. And
full of faith and enthusiasm in the end
trouble over the brutal world of imperialists,
they rally around this magazine,
to join the creativity of a new life.

We deeply welcome this because
a new life can only be done by oneself
the proletariat with its tireless creative
work. Good hour!

This issue is poor in its content.
than other proletarian cultural magazines;
the fiction and poetry provided are not
distinguished by artistic merit,
There is no particular depth in the articles either. But these
let the shortcomings not confuse our comrades
riches; as a first experience the magazine is good, it
many times greater than those numerous
new provincial "Izvestia", where entirely

it was built next to the Kasoviet institutions
expectations the intelligentsia writes illiterate
articles,

The magazine contains a certain, correctly taken

mass, and

grew-
but there is no such thing

line. This alone allows us to put
magazine to a known height, Necessary
also note that the themes of fiction

taken from everyday life. This is also important. It's time to re-
move from purely civic motives to mo-
It’s time for household assets to seize
life is wider.

Groshik (S. Kopeikin) describes, kan`®a-
the vodeks drank the little boy, lending him money
money for “prival” and refusing to support
piena leaf in favor of the strikers.

48

Vasiliev captured the tragic moment
from the struggle between “whites and reds”,

Loptin depicted the life of a small
tions and catal death accidentally died-
th driver.

L. Pokrovsky tried to give a sketch for
and psychological topic. +

During his three-year stay at the front-
those wife cheats on her husband and gets together with him
"best" friend. More from my wife's letters
to the front, the husband has a presentiment that there will be no
it's okayO. When he suddenly comes home,
then, outraged by his wife’s lies, he beats his
his “best” friend. It comes down to a duel
during which the enemy was so
It’s pathetic and disgusting that my husband is shooting. into the air,
Nod Kazan, when the Reds defeated the Whites
guardsmen, the hero of the story is so passionately
repents, pursuing the enemy, which hits
captured; there he meets his “friend”,
who stole his wife. The latter was surprised and
I was sarcastically happy to recognize him during interrogation,
What wild revenge and anger was on his face,
when he ordered his subordinates: these
shoot tomorrow morning,” which was exactly what happened,
accurately, fulfilled, This is the content.

The author took an old theme, already used -
long ago and at the same time quite
difficult to implement, and naturally not
coped with the task

}. Vasiliev gave a small picture from
life in the mines,
article “What is Proletkult” I, Sa-
Dofiev clarifies the question of the attitude of Pro-
letcult and revolution. He's fair
writes the following:

“Revolution and proletarian culture have
there is an inextricable connection. when we talk to
long live the Revolution, then together with those:

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No.6

We say: “Long live the Proletarian

culture." Proletkult—spiritual revolution
tion for the old, black capitalist,
the world is scarier, more dangerous than any bomb Yo
physical 'revolution. They know well
that the physical revolution is a quarter
Bolshevik" Soviet victory, in the revolutionary
Spiritual Lucia—complete victory,”

K. Loitin in his article “Our task”
in a concise, clear form sets out the main
theoretical background in the work of Pro-
Letkult, enshrined in the resolutions of the All-
Russian Conference.

In the department “Russian Proletarian Poetry”
placed critical notes on
collection of I. Sadofiev “Dynamo. Poems”,

they beat Comrade Ovdofyeva,” writes the author, “not-
can't be read like all other poetic works
products, this is the best example of a new pro-
Tara poetry, which requires serious
treat yourself with special attention.
His poems are the eternal movement of joyful labor
yes, fight and win“Yes.” The reviewer notes
in passing, that in his poetry Comrade Sadof-
he is typical, original, although “sometimes in io-
racing with a new form and a new rhythm
goes to some extreme,”

N should not be allowed near the magazine.
Klyuev, who is on the list of employees
nicknames This talented poet belongs
to a group of intelligent peasants -
Chinese poets, grimacing (S, Shsenina,
PP. Oreshina and others. Reader about them
may find in this issue of Proletar-
skoy Culture“,

The magazine “World and Man” was published with love,
on fairly good paper, clear type
volume, without any futuristic decorations.
Simple and pleasant, - p. L.

The editors of the journal ask you to send them work journals and collections for review.

proletarian writers and poets.

Publisher -

"All-Russian Council Prolet. K.-Pr. Organizations,

Editor -
Editorial Nolegia,

Printing house T-va I, D. Sytina, Pyatnitskaya ud. personal house,