Workers of all countries, unite!

Proletarian Culture.

MONTHLY MAGAZINE.

Organ Center. Committee of the All-Russian Propetkupt Council,
Publication of the State Publishing House.

Editorial office and office address: Moscow, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 26-30;
Reception with the editorial secretary daily from I to | hours of the day.

L No. 5. November. 1918

stva. F. Kalinin.—Proletarsky .—litera.
Tour creativity, V, Kerzhentsev.—First All-Russian. Conference  Flight. cult. - enlightenment
organizations, V. 'Kunavin. — Resolutions of the Conference. — Chronicle of Proletkult in
provinces." Art. Krievtsov.— Bibliography: “The Horn.” V. Polyansky.-—in the storm and the clouds
| me." V. P-ii.—“Wedding vestments.” A, O.—“From the kindergarten notebook”, B, Her-] |
Sokskaya.—chThe Crucible”, V. G-—-b.—chThe Future Culture.” 7. L. |

SOVRZHANIEV: Year of the proletarian dictatorship, V. Lolyausky. production)
=

The year of the proletarian dictatorship. ^

A year has passed since the proletariat took power into its own hands. Bourgeois political
tics scream about Bolshevik anarchy; about the destruction of life by the Bolsheviks,
culture, about the path to general savagery, ruin and impoverishment.

Appealing to the “authority” of Europe, our enemies are shedding crocodiles
tears about how things are not going the European way. “Everywhere in Europe during the de-
The multi-year process of winning people's rights, human and civil rights, for
everyone who wears the human garb has been crowned by the ‘efforts of the working class,
everywhere the working class was in the forefront, and only here, in Russia, in the name of the workers
of which class universal suffrage was abolished.”

At the 2nd Congress of the R. 'S.-D, R. PN. G.V. Plekhanov said that in case of need
ness of S.-D. may abolish universal suffrage. Russian revolutionary
The national proletariat did this.

In 1850, Marx, addressing the German workers, said: “to your militant
the cry is revolution without end.” And the Russian revolutionary prole-
The tariat in its victorious march did not limit itself to the overthrow of the autocrats -
new regime: he stepped over the republican bourgeois-parliamentary
system, and created a new system, still unknownfirst to the world - the Socialist system.
Council of the Republic.

At the 5th All-Russian Congress of Soviets it was adopted and proclaimed before
the peoples of the world a constitution, which, like a beacon among the raging waves of counter-
revolutionary international imperialism, attracts the expiring
blood of the Trans-European proletariat. The main task of the constitution is now
The main transitional moment is “the establishment of the dictatorship of the urban
and the rural proletariat and the poorest peasantry... in order to completely sub-
the emergence of the bourgeoisie, the abolition of the exploitation of man by man and the establishment
‹socialism, in which there will be no division into classes, no state
authorities." The Russian Republic “is a free socialist society
all working people of Russia,” and all power in the country ‘belongs to “all workers
settlement, united in city and village councils.” .

1
2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

Build life on these new socialist principles for the people"
who have a “secret thought about the revival of Russia and culture,” i.e. who-
Some people dream with hidden joy that the Czecho-Slovak gangs are about to
in the east, and the Anglo-French in the north and south will throw a noose over the proletarians
The Russian revolution, of course, is not a creative work.

In the foundations of the new ‘life, these gentlemen saw only Hottentot morality
and tried to reduce all the work of the revolution to a street slogan: “enough but-
›they attacked us; Now we’ll ride them.” This, of course, is slander against the revolution.
The working masses of the city and countryside have already understood what the essence of pro-
Tara revolution, imbued with it; in the most remote corner they know what it is
Soviet power, it arises, develops and strengthens everywhere. And the people won't give it
and voluntarily throw off the yoke of the bourgeois-parliamentary system. Return
land to the landowners, factories and banks to the bourgeoisie without a decisive fight to the death
neg opportunity.

If a few months ago we were in our heroic struggle for socialism
were’ alone if those of little faith doubted the imminent arrival of the internationalnoah
revolution, then now there is no reason to hesitate in the success of the struggle; European
the proletariat destroys the thrones of kings, kings flee, princes and crown princes lose
crowns, and no one to lift them; will soon overthrow the proletariat and the power of capital.
The role of Soviet Russia in this matter is great, through the path of great suffering and testing
under the international onslaught of imperialism, it carried its social
static red banner and confidently unfurls it over the world. To replace the drill-
Kuaz army, strong barracks discipline, the Red Army grew,
strong in the knowledge that it protects the interests of the working people from the authorities
bourgeoisie. Her powers begin to frighten even our enemies, and to tear them out of her hands
The banner of socialism is not so easy.

Imperialism seeks to tear apart the revolutionary front of the Russian-German
Russian proletariat; this attempt is ultimately doomed to complete failure.
The “Red Ghost” persistently flutters over Kvropa. After a year of proletarian
revolution in Rosspi we are entering a new period of international proletarian
revolution. Austria, Germany, Denmark, Belgium, Switzerland in the flames
Tara revolution. Not today, tomorrow all of Europe will be embraced by it.

The predatory sweatshop of economic life has been broken, prole-
Tara thought is working on the creation of a new administration to manage the pro-
production. From workers' control over production we naturally
came to the nationalization of industry, trade and financial capital.
Great difficulties stand in our way. We learn from our experiences. We are pre-
we clearly understand that to establish, and, moreover, on a new basis, the national economy
A state fundamentally disorganized by the world war cannot be restored in a few months.

_ We are well aware that among the broad masses of the people there are still many
petty-bourgeois possessive instincts and motives that interfere with business
organization of the economy. This is a legacy of the past, but in its revolutionary
Through collective creativity we will overcome it. If in the first months of the revolution
consciousnesses of that; what to reach the highestthem stages of cultural development
is possible only by raising labor productivity to the highest level,
was characteristic of the working intelligentsia of the most developed branches of production,
then now the entire proletariat is using its efforts to not only restore
to restore our industry destroyed by the war, but to establish it in a more
perfect form.

Our enemies shout day after day about “socialist experiments”,
thinking to convince the working masses that uncultured Russia cannot join
to the reign of socialism, that she needs to go through the path of suffering in the republic
capital. But these lamentations of the counter-revolution turn out to be fruitless and useless.
than. Even our downtrodden Russian people don’t listen to them and don’t justify them
village, Koli in the first months of the Soviet proletarian revolution. the authorities succeeded
overthrow the power of the landowners, with whom the conciliatory government stood on ceremony
Tseregel-Kerensky, then at the moment the village is experiencing October-
Russian revolution in the full sense. There is a separation of the rural poor,
No. 5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 3

its organization into committees and the dictatorship of these committees over the kulaks
Tom is in the village. If a few months ago the land was being stolen, now
the process of collection is underway, a public form of processing and use is being outlined.
tion of the goods produced. In a word, in agriculture the same process takes place,
as in industry.

Our enemies throughout the entire revolutionary period incessantly
shouting about the death of culture. They don’t seem to know that in Russia, as in everything
world, there is still no single universal culture, but there is a bourgeois culture,
anarchic, individualistic, degenerating into the culture of imperialism -
greedy, bloodthirsty, bestial. The revolutionary proletariat strives to master
to fight against the shackles of a dying culture. He develops his class pro-
Letarian culture. Due to many objective historical conditions, the worker
class of Russia, despite its cultural backwardness, was the first to raise the banner
socialistth revolution, he was the first to raise the question of socialist
skoy culture and began intensive cultural and educational activities. work, giving
it has new content and a special character. 1

If earlier the bourgeois intelligentsia gave the beginnings of humanitarian
sciences and vocational knowledge so that the worker can receive
better paid place, then now the proletariat. resolutely rejects this
point of view. In knowledge, he seeks, first of all, support in understanding his life,
means to resolve the immediate tasks of the revolution.

In the sciences, the proletariat strives to grasp the method common to all of them in order to
to create a general organizational science that is so important in building a new life.

It's the same in art. If for the bourgeoisie art is simple fun;
entertainment, then for the proletariat it is one of the best mediums of organization
life, raising a new person. ›

Depending on this point of view, the working class raised the acute question
about proletarian science, literature, proletarian music, proletarian theater,
proletarian painting, sculpture, etc., etc., and began in this area a grand
marvelous work. Created: Socialist Academy. Social Sciences,
proletarian universities, numerous Proletkult studios, In these
institutions, the proletariat is given maximum initiative: it
not only a passive listener, as it was before, but also an active worker -
poet, musician, painter, poet. These institutions must be replaced by
The bourgeois intelligentsia are the new builders of life.

During the year of its dictatorship, the ‘proletariat realized that the strength of its revolution was
occurs not only in a political and military dictatorship, but also in a cultural dictatorship
noah, I consolidated all my creative work in this area in the working class. in below
printed resolutions First. Vser. Conf. Ave. K.-Pr. Org.

In practice, revolutionary cultural work began immediately after

October revolution, and the proletariat, freeing itself from the ideological hege-
monies of the bourgeois intelligentsia, becoming more and more bold, more and more independent
in yoursbrilliance.
— (Now that the flames of the socialist revolution are engulfing one country
after another, when a united bourgeois-imperialist front opens,
the proletariat, full of unshakable conviction in its victory, full of revolution
revolutionary inspiration and revolutionary will, will create its own one. revolution
revolution front and “snatch some kind of new world from the darkness and blood!” Then
the banner of proletarian culture will fly brightly over this new world.

Vaperyan Polyasky.

*
4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. at No. 5

Ideology of production.
s

“The method of production of material life,” says C. Marche, “determined
infuses the entire social, political and spiritual process of life.” In
the most important thing is the point of view
‹ what position it is being considered or studied. Materialistic
understanding of history at its core no longer meets with any serious
criticism even from the bourgeoisie. They simply tacitly acknowledge his victory.
Bulgakov in “Philosophy of Economics” writes: “The number of actual followers
there is much more economic materialism than open and conscious
his followers." Regarding the origin of ideas, conditions of origin
ideology, as we have already said, is not a big dispute; if there is, it’s probably not enough
identified, then this is about the role of ideology in the social process. }

To define what ideology is, we will not talk about the origins
the idea of this word - for us this is not so important, the elements of ideology are -
words, speech, concepts. For a person, they serve as a tool for organizing his life.
little experience. Let's illustrate this with an example. In physics it is established that everyone knows
The law is that bodies expand due to heat. In these four words collected, united
yen colossal practical experience of mankind. And this formula’ of four
words serve as a guide in the practical activities of people. At’ everyone
kind of buildings, this law of physics is taken into account and left
the necessary amount of space so that when the temperature changes you can
will avoidb destruction. When using materials in other cases, take
measures of a different order. Now it seems gone, but before humanity
got to this ideological concept, it went through a million practical
experiments, encountered the destruction of his efforts, wasted a gigantic
amount of strength until, finally, this formula weapon began to conserve energy
people, save. her.

Here's another example: let's say a carpenter is making a table. To do it, he
technical movements and actions are required. Every carpenter strives to make
table with the least amount of time and effort. He is guided in his actions
actions both by his own experience and by those conveyed to him by others. This way
So he developed an order, where to start and where to end. Here is the log-
ical, order for the production of the table, which he acquired in the process of long-
first practice and the even longer practice of all humanity, from which he
received the basis of order by inheritance, and will be called the ideology of the table.
These examples demonstrate the organizing role of ideology with sufficient clarity.
For a beginning carpenter there is no need to look for the order in which he should
For a wife to make this or that furniture, all he needs to do is read the manual or...
learn it from oral transmission, and in further practice he can only
to undermine this established order.

The examples we have given clearly show the enormous organizing significance
understanding of ideology. The more correctly and harmoniously ideology takes into account practice,
the more it contributes to saving human power, and at the same time gives,
and great results. It protects against unnecessary waste of energy and unnecessary
repetitions of what has already been passed, But with all the positive huge organi-
the degrading meaning of ideology, it has a negative side: ideology
conservative, does not change in itself, its change occurs only in
practical action, when it encounters one or another practical
contradiction, with an obstacle when it does not correspond to new practiceke, he can’t
organize it. And in these cases, more than one contradiction is often needed,
and tens, after which it changes, shifts from the established order
Everyone knows that in order for a person to become an established habit,
No. 5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 5

change the nickname to a more perfect one, you need to show more than once more perfect
This is a perfect method, but for an individual it often happens to no avail.

In addition, ideology in public life has another complex
‚ side. Ideology is determined by the material method of production.
In a capitalist society, along with its main method of production
there are others, starting with the old feudal, ending with the imperialist
Sky, Thus, in modern society there are so many ideologies,
how many production methods. They seem to form a whole series of floors, friend
intertwined with each other and have a corresponding influence on those living in
this society of people, influence their practical actions and the establishment of class
<new relationships. To understand this binding, you need a deep class
your consciousness.

Let me give you an example. In Chekhov's story "The Intruder" there is an unusual
two worldviews, two ideologies of representatives of two different
personal classes and modes of production. A. Chekhov, with his characteristic humor,
provides the judicial investigator with the interrogation of a man who has accused
til on the railroad bed from the rail nut. When asked by the investigator why
he unscrewed the nut, the man replied: “If I didn’t need it, I wouldn’t unscrew it.” —
“Why did you need this nut?” - “A nut? We are made of nuts and sinkers
we do."

“Who are we?”›—<We, the people... Klimovsky men, that is.” Next is

the donor tells the man that for malicious damage to the railway,
on the basis of such and such an article, the culprit is subjected to exile to hard labor,
and then asks the minister to arrest him and take him to prison. The man is amazed
he can’t believe that this is happening not in a dream, but in reality, he can’tcan't understand
for which he is sent to prison. He unscrewed the nut he needed there
There are still others left - what kind of punishment can there be? At the same time they do the same
all the Klimov peasants, and he will consider himself inseparable from them: “We, the people.” Ob-
The shacky system of life, especially in its pure form, does not have a strict understanding,
tion about the boundaries of property, where what is mine ends and where the common begins, which
You can take a swarm, if not all, then in any case a part. The investigator predicts
the ruler of the bourgeois system, where everything is strictly regulated, property is sacred
is sacred and inviolable, and anyone who violates this law is subject to inexorable persecution.
dovaniya. Two representatives of different classes, and, most importantly, different systems, different
methods of production, one is communal, the other is capitalist, with a ‘diameter’
tra-opposite ideology, and therefore everyone understands differently
one and the same fact of life and draws opposite conclusions from it. B
Chekhov depicted this case. psychology of representatives of two different
methods of production in its pure separate concrete! manifestation. In action
valid life in its entirety with the existence of various forms and
<production methods. the psychology of both representatives is mixed
character. The basic meichology of the class is clothed in the mire of remnants, and its fundamental
new core has to be purified with the help of a developed class consciousness and thus
in a way to reveal his true face,
,® In public life, meet the ideology of a particular class in pure
form does not seem possible. We can only outline its main
board, basic form. To establish the psychology of industrial
proletariat, we will have to take everything said above into account.

NI

At the end of the preface of the book “Towards a Critique of Political Economy” Marx
writes: “The productive forces developing in the depths of bourgeois society
At the same time, they create material conditions for resolving this antagonism
(between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie. F.K.), this social formation and
hthe prologue of the real history of human society ends.” These conditions
predicted by Marx based on an analysis of the development of economic forms,
6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

are currently available, Modern imperialist capital
lism can be characterized by the beginning of socialization, depersonalization and anonymity
ness. In the financial field, capital is monopolized in groups of banks or,
as they are called, concerns, a handful of large capital owners dictate their
will, subjugating not only individual capitalists, but also the entire state.
“In Germany before the war, the 9 largest Berlin banks had their
hands more than half of the total amount of deposits of the entire country.” "One German
the bank managed no less than 58 other banks.” “There are only two giants in America -
Russian organizations, Rockefeller and Morgan, dominate credit
the whole country."

The capitalist is already losing property rights to a large extent, >
It cannot move capital at will. “An individual (writes
Gelferdin) is entitled only to the proceeds; property that was once
marked the actual unlimited disposal of the means of production
and therefore the same management of production has now turned
in a simple title of profitability, - the right to dispose of production is taken away from an individual
vodetvom":

In modern capitalism, the right of property in its pure form is sub-
torn: it becomes anonymous, develops into rudimentary forms of socialization
niya, into a peculiar and vague, but undoubted prototype of the socialist
building.

In the management of enterprises there is automation and also anonymous
ness. Supervision of going to work instead of the timekeeper is carried out by the control
watches, alien to any personal discretion. Master's Naivor
turns into only technical guidance, but it is also extremely narrowed and limited.
no. This manual is established by the drafters and installers title.
Again, personal discretion is eliminated—the worker is led by an insensitive
impersonalth drawing is the fruit of collective work, to which the worker strictly
must follow. Except. this, technical management is carried out by the whole
a number of technical indicators, devices, templates, measuring gauges
nal and regulatory instruments. Thus, the role of managers is
strives to do simple work. The distance between workers and persons,
performing administrative duties is erased. They are you
executors of the same plans that are dictated by the inner meaning,
the logic of development of a pre-initiation or a whole group, the whole volume of this project
persecution on a global scale. Administrative authority and technical management
Vodevo, the whole system of both is developed in the research bureau, in the factory
rics of inventions. All production experience is collected there, everything is taken into account
its advantages and disadvantages, experiments are carried out, and then strictly tested
proven and tested, used as a system or private improvement
in specific proceedings, directly in practice, where it is without any personal discretion
friction and subjective philosophies are strictly followed.

In the field of technology development itself, there is also a tendency towards automatic
privacy and anonymity. Random manifestation of individual initiative
in technically developed production it becomes a relic. Watt's time (iso-
creator of the steam engine) and Arkwright (inventor of the loom) passed;
This is just an old legend. The modern worker is a simple performer
according to a template, a drawing, where ingenuity is extremely limited, - she
can only take place in minor improvements of individual parts.
The entire course of development of modern technology says that we will be up to date in this area as well.
and creativity will die out. All development of technology is transferred to those same laboratories.
research centers, invention factories. The doors of these laboratories with all the accessories
capabilities are also open to workers, where they can find all the means for
their inventive ideas. Inventions from the field of lucky chance -
news, finds transitionin an organized, systematic and strictly conscious
telny work. In the field of inventions you get continuity. Old service
tea explosions of creative inspiration and ingenuity will be replaced in such
laboratories with his constant work. They gather and unite individual
No. 5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 7

nal individual experience, which ‘has a random character, with gaps and
failures, and the experience is recorded by the collective forces of the entire industry.

Accounting includes not only enterprise systems, but also a simple swing of a saw
worker, Such a combination of experience creates the opportunity to establish continuous
creativity and organization of creative ingenuity.

The methods of workers in the enterprise are adapted to the machines, it occurs
mechanization, the inexorable execution of the predetermined logic of the action
great mechanisms!).

At first glance, a new industry in which we see general contours
prototype of the socialist system, is painted in an unsightly light, and on the ideal
It can leave a depressing impression on statically minded people. Everywhere
mechanization, workers become as if slaves of machines, systems, plans,
the soulless will of which they are forced to carry out. Psychology of the proletariat
on this soil is created too uniformly, and the constant repetition of mechanical
ical homogeneous ‘strict movements from here to here creates iron discipline
Lin, that under a reactionary political system an undesirable
Vastoy character of psychology. So this was observed to some extent
from the German worker.

The process of mechanization, adaptation of movements, gestures of the worker
to the machine, subordination of the logic of the entire enterprise system to the laws of its development
takes place, But the working class must inevitably go through it, this is preparation
nominative class of the transition to socialism, which presupposes the highest
form of discipline and organization. It is precisely this system of conscious
discipline and is created by the will of the developing productive forces in the last
ny transitional moment of capitalism. To be against thisnatural
process has no basis for us, Simultaneously with this process, on the real world
with him, another is observed. The lines between skilled workers are blurring
chimi and untrained workers. These lines are blurred between masters and workers.
chimi, With the constant movement of technology development, the transition to one
professions to another, In these and other different ways conditions are created,
increasing the level of intelligence of workers. In particular, this method is
There is a reduction in the working day and partly the development of a general culture. But still
to a greater and striking extent the process of culture of the working class to the extreme
ity is facilitated in Soviet Russia, where there is complete and wide scope for development
proletarian culture creates the opportunity for rapid passage of transition
march towards socialism. There is another very important circumstance ‘in
system of relations of imperialist capitalism, namely, that every
the worker in this system more than in all other periods, there is an inextricable and
a necessary link in this production throughout its entire system. All met
contradictions in the process of work for an individual worker are no longer a contradiction
of a personal, personal nature—this contradiction confronts all
system, it appears more distinctly and easier and therefore can be accounted for and eliminated.
Spontaneously whine and. randomness takes place less and less in this system, -
the power of the consciousness of strict accounting grows,

We may notice that the worker with this picture, which is copied
us from the emerging outlines of the form of production relations of the imperial-
istic capitalism, is doomed to the unsightly role of executor of the will
and the plans of a very significant minority who sit in the bureau of art
scanning, distribution and management. Yes, we will answer, this is true, but this is a minority
power enjoys power to the same extent as the worker in changing techniques, epo-
way of work in relation to the part of the product he performs, this or that
parts of production. The worker's techniques are dictated by the properties of a given thing, cato-
what he processes, and the purpose for which the object, the product is intended.
The freedom of his choice lies only in changing speed and perfection. Bureau power
research or management takes place only within the limits of systems perfection

*) For those wishing to become more fully acquainted with the picture of the forging industry, we recommend
read the wonderful article by A. Gastev: “New Industry”. "Metalist Bulletin", No. 2.

th
‘
5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

production, its facilitation and acceleration. But she, too, with every step of movement
the working class is losing in the future even those crumbs of power that it currently has
Icy moment. This power is immeasurably less than even that
which any social leader of a class or group has. The power of the leader
extends only as long as he correctly takes into account the interests of his
class. But in the public sphere greater arbitrariness may still be allowed,
greater bias in one direction or another, because in it accounting is possible in a much smaller
higher degree than in technology based on more exact sciences. There's still some
possible temporary delusion of the masses, ‘especially if their leader has a great
great talent as a speaker, writer, etc. d. But also in the public sphere the chances
the arbitrary power of the leader is minimal and limited by time,

To understand more clearly the role of ideology and the role of productive forces,
we will give a general picture of development, a general outline of the ideology of bourgeois pro-
production.

At the dawn of his youth in HUP! century, at the beginning of the French Revolution, when
The bourgeoisie began the struggle for power; it based its ideology on
teriaism and reason. So great was the dominance of consciousness at that time, or
as they called it, reason, that the bourgeoisie proclaimed this reason as a deity,
supreme being. But as her power strengthened, the more
bourgeois production and the need for its development increased, the more
contradictions with the generated capitalist production increased
class of the proletariat, and in connection with this the specter of socialism arose. As
the growing evidence of the specter of socialism, its transformation into an inevitable reality
ity, the charm of faith in the power of reason began to fade among the bourgeoisie. Reason in the bourgeoisie
In my consciousness he began to turn pale. In the 20th century, bourgeois ideologists declared a ban
meekness of consciousness—mind. In place of reason, the most talented bourgeois
philosophers and scientists - Boutroux, Bergeon and a number of others have put forward the intuition
instinct and all kinds of mystical theories. They proclaimed the law of life
supernatural and incomprehensible, just to protect yourself from the coming
and turning into the reality and concreteness of socialism. Even brighter than in
science, such a decadent development of bourgeois ideology manifested itself in art.
Refined mystics, acmeists, ego-futurists appeared of all kinds and colors
and all other devilry that declared war on reason, history and everything like that
experience gained by humanity, replacing all this with instinct and what will wander into the city
fishing $
The opposite picture is presented by the process of development in capitalism.
ical production. At first, the power of spontaneity and disorganization reigns in it.
ity, poor organization in technology and undivided spontaneity and anarchy
chemicals in the production and distribution process. Being too individual at first
dualized, each enterprise was under the authority of only a separate
owner and developed under the sign of personal individual profit - this
development faced severe local crises in one industry or another
production of homogeneous products. But as capitalism grows and communications grow
© this technology was united into syndicates, and at the same time observed
greater organization is also given, the scale of crises expands as territorial
theoretically, and by the difference in the nature of the products produced. top
relative organization and victory over spontaneity has been achieved in modern
changing period of imperialist capitalism. But here the power is creative
calculation in production reached its limits, he could not complete his
development, - faced with a gigantic,an unprecedented and severe crisis,
captured the whole world, and was expressed in the global carnage we are experiencing, Sga-
The journey of capitalism is over; it could not finally overcome spontaneity;
the victory of organized consciousness will complete its development in socialism.
Thus, two processes of ideological and productive forces took place simultaneously in
the opposite side. Second—in. the depths of bourgeois society, in its
basis of the production form develops into a prototype of socialism
ical production, and the first process, ideological, developed into a constraining
the shell, which at the moment of the gigantic carnage is being torn off from the un-
Y,

m5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 9

force known to the world, covering our planet with countless corpses. Prole-
Tariat is called upon by history “not to cry or laugh, but to understand”; —along with understanding—
According to the laws of social development, he must act,

Modern imperialist capitalism shows all the signs
impersonality, socialization, and in accordance with this collectivism is created
cical peihology of the industrial proletariat. This one. emerging form
organizations in production, where everything is based on strict consideration of the experience of all pro-
from the department as a whole, where the worker is only a conscious, disciplined link
in the chain of the entire collective—the proletariat must transfer this form into ideological
cultural work. By doing this we will contribute to the final
shaping the psychology of the proletariat, which, being entangled in bourgeois
remnants, reveals still fragile signs of a socialist pei-
chology, breaking completely with spontaneity and chance, calling them
conscious organization and discipline, building our organization
Thus, the registration and unification of each grain of individual
other experience, the synthesis of which is put into circulation again for further expansion.
reniya and development. Thus, the proletariat creates the conditions for the final
but to strengthen socialism. As Engels put it, “from the kingdom it is necessary
prThe oletariat will take a leap into the kingdom of freedom.” This means the power of consciousness
in the socialist public will achieve final triumph over
spontaneity and chance. Only under socialism will humanity have everything it deserves,
bring practical and ideological manifestations into the framework of organization and thus
way to consciously carry out their accounting, otoor, classification.

>
Fedor Kalinin.

Proletarian University. .

First Military-Russian Conference of Workers, Cultural and Educational
organizations set before the proletariat the task of “socializing science.”
This marks the reworking of modern science in form and content from the collection
labor-labor point of view and its transfer in such a transformed form of labor-
to the masses.

The conference also indicated the main organizational means to achieve
this grandiose goal. They are:

“1) Creation of the Workers’ University - an integral system of cultural and industrial
educational institutions, built on the comradely cooperation of the participants
students and students and consistently leading the proletarian to perfection
knowledge of scientific methods and the highest achievements of science.

“2) Based on the ‘activities of the Workers’ University—the development of a Workers’
Encyclopedia, harmonious, brought to the greatest simplicity and clarity, expounded
of the methods and achievements of science from a proletarian point of view.”

Here the word “University” is not used in its usual modern meaning.
nii, but in his. original much broader sense: the entire totality
educational and scientific institutions of different levels in their general connection, in
the unity of their purpose,

It is obvious that such a system must have its own center, and this center must
be a higher education and educational institution. By analogy with the old bourgeois-
At other universities, it can also be called a “University” in the narrow sense
words. This “Proletarian University” is spoken of by another resolution of the
Rosesha Conference of Proletkult. It outlines the tasks of this University
theta, the basics of its organization, the general program plan. And currently
work has begunOrganizational Commission for the establishment of P.U., in Moscow.
10 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

In addition, the establishment of an all-Russian
scale, which has the closest connection with. idea Prol. Wow; this is precisely the Social
stic Academy. :

Collect and highlight the organizational experience from which these
projects and attempts, has become an urgent task, the implementation of which will significantly
To a large extent, the success of the entire business will depend. Let's try to do what for her
possible within the limits of the material available to the author and within the journal
articles. h

[.

Eight years ago, proposing and justifying in a legal brochure the lo-
zungi of the Proletarian University and the Workers' Encyclopedia, I told
how life itself led me to them. There was a lot left unsaid
censorship conditions: even the title of the brochure had to be distorted - instead
“Cultural tasks of the proletariat” write “Cultural tasks of our time”
me." Now I will repeat the story, opening the parentheses.

Around the mid-90s of the last century in the city of Tula, a young worker, Ivan
Ivanovich Savelyev organized circles at the arms and cartridge factory,
He was an outstanding, perhaps brilliant, organizer who, unfortunately,
burned down without having time to turn around, after 5-6 years; one of the beautiful forces that ruined
captivated by the damned one. He searched for a long time and unsuccessfully in this, then very
remote provincial center of intellectuals for propaganda, has not yet found
me, standing at the crossroads between Narodnaya Volya and Marxism. Then
V. Bazarov and I. Stepanov joined us.

Propaganda was carried out most of the year in nearby forests, in winter -
barrel closets. The group lasted an unusually long time—4-4 years; we had
the opportunity to conduct quite extensive courses in circles, mainly
This is, of course, political economy. We got down to business with very little
extensive scientific baggage and largely unclear ideas even about the Scientific
socialism. Our inexperience was so great that I, for example, tried to bring
their listenersto the presentation of “Capital” through “)economic conversations” Ka-
Ryshev and Ivanyukov’s “Course of Political Economy”—books that have no
what in common with Marxism, and therefore, of course, completely unsuitable for
our goal. This was very quickly revealed to me by our listeners.

Those dozens of young workers who passed through our circles, in general
were far from being those chosen for mental activity and tested
in life by people who should form the basis of the first listening sessions
ditches of the Proletarian University: in underground conditions in the absence of real
political work, they were recruited relatively randomly, based on personal
connections and external signs of intelligence, However, they are by no means
were not simply passive material for pedagogical influence, and
true good faith would require us to recognize that their role in the system is
The propaganda line was largely guiding and regulating.

Their questions and comments on what we were reading together soon convinced me
that the selected “benefits” do not meet their requirements, and especially the
their way of thinking. Expository reading. quickly became boring
preface, followed by lively conversations that went very far from
affected by the reading of the plots, in these conversations, spontaneously and persistently,
shared trends, a certain direction for the search was naturally outlined.
the young lecturer’s thoughts to connect like links of one complex chain of development
tiya, technical and economic phenomena with the resulting forms of spirituality -
Noah culture. I had to inevitably move on to creating my own course
lectures, in which the material was combined in precisely this connection: receiving
"A Short Course in Economic Science", then legally published after the barbaric
Russian censorship operations.

And then the listeners’ requests went further and further and captured the complexities
the most important topics in natural science and philosophy; lecturers were forced to study themselves
No. 5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 11

much that they previously thoughtresidual have fluent superficial
management y |

It was completely impossible to convey to listeners the fact in a short time.
tical material in all areas that aroused their keen interest. This
forced the lecturers to pose the task itself differently, to use the main efforts
influence on teaching listeners to learn, showing them the ways and means to self-
worthwhile work. It was necessary to focus on the methods of those
sciences about which it was necessary to give a concept. It turned out that listening
What occupies and attracts our people is the non-specialized character
ter of various methods, but, on the contrary, their mutual connection, what is contained in them
common and similar. We came across some innate desire for
monism, they demanded from us—not always successfully, of course—monistic
answers to all sorts of damned and not damned questions. This way
the activity of our own thoughts had to be directed; for me
personally, this greatly predetermined the nature of all subsequent
scientific and philosophical work.

Meanwhile, in this case, the worker listeners could give us, their
leaders, only vague, so to speak, spontaneous leadership, which
swarm simply flowed from their social nature, was imposed by the makeup of their muscles
lenia, clearly even unformed, but rooted deeply in the conditions
their collective work life:

This is perhaps the longest and most systematic of the propaganda campaigns.
attempts of that time planted in us for the first time the idea of a Workers' University.
For us, this attempt was and remains not only its naive prototype, it
was also the beginning of our own education in the proletarian spirit,
first year of our "Workers' University".

You

at

Propaganda work was followed by agitation work. Then it came
a time of intense political struggle. "The first wave of the Russian Revolution has arrived"
tions, -—1905-6.

The Freedom Days made it possible to launch a campaign. and propaganda in incomparable
‹ same sizes. But. neither in the compiled programsammah of propaganda, not in
in its very practice the idea of a Workers’ Univer-
The culture, like the very idea of proletarian culture in general, remained in embryo.
Politics reigned supreme, and the nature of the work was almost exclusively
democratic; socialism was mentioned only as a distant goal in order to
immediately go back to the politics of the day, to democratic slogans.

This was quite natural, it inevitably followed from the situation, Ur-
The level of development of our working class was such that it still lacked its own
specifically democratic education; and the fate of his efforts and the entire revolution
depended on whether the rest of democracy would support him, i.e. namely the cross
yanetvo; the proletariat had to contact the peasantry at all costs,
which was possible only on general democratic grounds.

Therefore, although we, representatives of the old propaganda, constantly point out
At the same time they stressed the need to expand the task in the sense of a socialist
education of the proletariat and the Moscow Bolsheviks, in particular, strenuously
insisted on this, but even literature of the corresponding type we were able to
develop only on a very limited scale.

When the first wave of the revolution crashed against the inertia of the peasants
and the army, when the proletariat was pushed out of the political arena, and the intelligentsia
The vast majority of the nation recoiled from social democracy, then it was time
time to think more seriously and deeply about this issue,

Life has shown as clearly as possible that the working class must rely
only to himself, that in the future he will have to conduct his business entirely on his own.
It was necessary to prepare intensively and hastily for this.
12, PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

IG.

The National Workers' School of 1909 on the island of Capri was established according to
initiative of a group of so-called “Left Bolsheviks”, later “Vperyodists”.
The most active role in its organization was played by the worker-philosopher Nikifor Vilo-
new together with M. Gorky, Lunacharsky, M. Pokrovsky and other Russian organiza-
ations were’ proposedsend specially selected comrades to this school
cabbage soup Organizations were falling apart, crossing the border was very difficult;
There were only fourteen listeners. And since not all the organizations that sent them
nizations clearly understood the meaning and significance of the matter, then even these few do not all correspond
corresponded to the level of consciousness and activity required for
participants of the proletarian higher church; but the majority still stood at the ‘level
tasks.

This was discovered already when the School Council met for the first time -
it included all lecturers and listeners on equal rights - it became established
develop the program and distribution of courses. The "disciples" knew what they wanted from
schools, and made a number of changes to the program, most of which
This part then turned out to be useful and expedient, Kure turned out to be extremely
concentrated: a whole series of important and difficult subjects were squeezed into the
period.4% of months. This concentration prevented, to some extent, the
penalize the wide and free communication between lecturers and listeners that should
will be established in a real and not an embryonic Proletarian University.
This obviously narrowed the leadership role of the collective of listeners in the sa-
my conduct of classes. However, here too, in fact, it turned out that they were by no means
tend to remain within the passive and easy role of “learners”: people who have already
previously able to study and think a lot, generally quite educated, not
looking at various gaps in knowledge and lack of systematicity, they
critically perceived everything that was offered to them and took seriously
discussion of both the content and form of lectures. University professors
ordinary type, important officials of the capitalist state are unlikely to
would put up with such a relationship. The school's lecturers were almost all mute people.
young, with well-developed views, each possessing certain
second fame; however, they took away quite a few useful instructions from the debate.
comrade with listeners.—Under these ‘conditions, it becomes impossible to conductflax
a common picture for old universities is that the same course is repeated
stereotypically without improvements without reworking one issue after another.

The school program related almost exclusively to the field of social
sciences and social philosophy; natural science was barely touched upon by a few
with, so to speak, supernumerary lectures. This one-sidedness and the lecturer,
and the listeners recognized a significant drawback of the work: both of them presented
set themselves a program for the Proletarian University covering all the fundamentals
new branches of science. But limited time and lecturers did not allow
to put things on such a scale

U"

The idea of the Proletarian University grew and became stronger in the work of the school. Together
with those in the listeners and in the lecturers the consciousness took root more and more deeply that
it is only a part, only one of the conclusions of the idea of an even broader, more comprehensive
General capture: ideas of Proletarian Culture. This was instilled in the whole character
the scientific work of the school, as well as its everyday organization,

But there was something else nearby. Life is not an idyll at all, but in this era it is deaf
reaction she was least of all. Elements of disintegration and disintegration, going
in the party organizations, were from the very beginning included in the school and, in turn,
developed. At first they were hidden and unnoticed, but by the end of school they broke out
in the form of disorganizing factional struggle. Most of the listeners remained
true to the idea of the school; the minority fell away under the slogan of protest against the very
Yaucha school. Naturally, this was not the most valuable part, namely those
to a PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 73

who ended up in school through a misunderstanding, unprepared for its difficult
work, under the leadership of one rather developed and sincere person, but
a bitter factionist and one provocateur who was executed by firing squad.
The struggle poisoned the last days of the school's existence, but did not prevent
it's over. Moreover, the youth gave impetus to a clearer awareness and more
decisive formulation of new principles—the spirit of the past gave. visual
illustration of thoseillnesses and weaknesses of our work, with which it was necessary
fight.

In the platform developed by a team of listeners and lecturers and soon
printed by iodine group company. “Focused” on cultural revolutionary tasks
were outlined as follows: “...The socialist consciousness of the working class
doligio to cover more than one of his direct struggles in the field of politics and
economy, but throughout his life. The proletariat and its allies—socialist
intelligentsia - came from the old petty-bourgeois-peasant and bourgeois world -
they were first brought up in it; therefore, without noticing it themselves, they save
much of his habits and inclinations, from his spiritual make-up and even contribute to
revolutionary work. For example, for no one. it’s no secret how much harm has happened
to the Tariat, and indeed to the entire revolutionary movement, individualism brings great
many figures, their personal ambition, desire to advance, aversion to
comradely discipline, intolerance to comradely criticism. The struggle of looks
Thanks to this, fishing is often complicated, and then overshadowed by the struggle of self-
Unfortunately, the organization's forces are wasted on fruitless internal conflicts.
The widespread practice among party workers brings no less harm.
nicknames have the habit of blindly trusting known authorities, relying on opinions
of certain recognized leaders, without weighing them, reject all doubts about
their rightness"...

It further became clear that the fight against these phenomena from case to case is by no means

› solves cases while their common underlying causes remain; of them should
The actual statement of the problem is directed against them:

“The bourgeois world; having its own developed culture, having laid down. imprint
to modern science, art, philosophy, through: they are imperceptibly educated
us in its direction while the class struggle and socialist
the ideal pulls us in the opposite direction. Completely break with this history
it is impossible to create a culturally created culture, because from it we can and must draw
powerful weapons to fight the same old world. Accepther
as it is, would mean preserving within oneself the past against which
this is a struggle. There is only one way out: using the previous bourgeois culture, co-
to create, oppose and spread among the masses a new proletarian:
develop proletarian science, strengthen true comradely relations in
proletarian revolutionary environment, to develop a proletarian philosophy,
to direct art towards proletarian aspirations and experience. Only on this
path, a holistic socialist education can be achieved, which
will eliminate countless contradictions in our life and work and increase many times
will strengthen our strength, and at the same time bring us closer to the socialist ideal,
developing more and more of its elements in the present.”

If only this alone remained from our first workers' school, and then we could
it would be to say that the efforts spent on it were not in vain. But it didn't disappear
in vain and the development of a new type of higher propaganda, a new type of organization
ischoly, our work on her programs: all this was found later and is found 06o-
especially at present its application. And even from such a small number of listeners
Now, nine years later, I was able to meet five people from the school,
performing responsible revolutionary organizational work: for
ishkh Russian conditions of this time—an amazing percentage of surviving
and operating

No.
.
The first school was followed a year later by a second one in Bologna. Listeners
there was not much again, about eighteen people; and from them, thanks to the ongoing
14 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

the collapse of organizations in Russia, there were only about
lovina; the rest were emigrant workers planning to go back to
revolutionary work. But the level of development and activity was no lower than in.
first school, and there are even fewer retarded ones. There were more lecturers: except
left Bolsheviks of the first school, some agreed to take part
those among the prominent Mensheviks who were especially sensitive to the needs of life; Comrade Trotsky,
Kollontai, Pavlovich-Volunteer, yessame P. Maslov. And we invited, like
to the first school, representatives of all factions.

The nature of the program in general did not change: it was again a school of social
sciences. But the development of courses, of course, was more perfect, since it was based
on the experience of the first school. There was a month more time for work, and it was possible
significantly enhance practical training. Among them were, for example, those that
students without the participation of lecturers compiled and implemented an approximate
log measures; it was quite successful both in structure and in ideological consistency.
ity, and in a purely literary sense. There were also general discussions on disputes

`nym scientific issues. On the issue of the theory of land rent, the speakers
two lecturers appeared, standing on different points of view; in their criticism listen-
They participated in the most active way. at

The organization of classes and the teaching method developed and took shape there
already so much so that for the Proletarian University the results obtained
could serve as a suitable starting point.

But this was still six years before the new revolutionary wave, which
has created objective conditions for the organization of such a University.

UG
forge

The revolution that emerged from the world war gave us a cultural
the task of the working class in full ve maspigaba, Life presented him with gigantic
demands, first in the sense of hasty self-organization, then in the sense of
needful leadership of the entire state and economic life of the country
in a state of great devastation and impoverishment. Cultural backwardness
was clearly felt in all attempts to resolve these problems, and at the same time
it was clear that the mechanical assimilation of organizational forms and methods of the old
culture is not enough for a real solution, because just these forms.
These methods led to an unprecedented collapse. The idea of an independent proletarian
culture has acquired the character of an ultimatum delivered by history to our
to the working class.

The question of the Proletarian University was one of the inevitable and important
the greatest conclusions from here, Nevertheless,the year of the revolution did not have time to set
it's his turn. Cultural work was based on specific needs,
moving in the midst of the revolution, and therefore moved from specific tasks to general ones; ive pro-
In the lighting business, our work began with a lot of practical courses, and such
general education courses in the sense of civic and social literacy in general
ties, such as various “soldier’s universities”, “district courses”, etc.
But the demands of life expanded and became more and more radical; neither narrowly
practical short-term courses, nor schools of social literacy could
provide support for independent social construction. A question was raised
on higher proletarian education.

They approached it from two different sides, outlined two different paths for
his decisions, Some suggested simply using the apparatus of the old state-
venous, i.e. bourgeois universities, adapting it for this purpose with
help of some reforms and giving free access to it to everyone who wants it
comrades. Others—including us—found this solution to be partly insufficient,
partly even erroneous, and resurrected the slogan of the Workers' University.

The first reasoned very simply, If the old universities could prepare
to supply enough organizational forces for the economy of the bourgeoisie, then, serving
No. 5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 15

workers' and peasants' state, they will prepare them as needed
and for him. The majority of the former organizational intelligentsia does not want
to serve him, we must force the universities to create a new intelligentsia,
proletarian, it is necessary, therefore, to introduce cadres of student workers into them. Pre-
The hindrance is that workers do not have enough preliminary knowledge and pre-
thorough mastery of methods: ability to use literature, laboratories
etc. All this should be given to them through a series of preparatory courses; if and
to organize “workers’ universities”, then for the same purpose and with the same capture.
Of course, the old gymnasiums performed this task very poorly for 7-8 years, and
Until now, students had to start everything fromthe same assimilation of methods of work
bots; our expediently structured courses will accomplish it much better for
the very first year of work.. And then the university classrooms will be filled with workers -
students; and in some 2-3 years, because these students will study
not like the previous ones, the workers’ and peasants’ state will receive numerous
new and reliable working intelligentsia. '

Supporters of this plan proceed from the idea that university science
and there is science in general, i.e. non-class. We think that this is bourgeois science.
nay and, therefore, bourgeois; only people with deep
proletarian class consciousness, are able to resist this influence,
and not those who received only hasty training in the general technology of scientific
Bots. Experience has shown that the old science itself, even if completely independent,
thorough personal study, often from energetic, outstanding workers who
in spite of all obstacles they devoted themselves to it, produced bourgeois intellectuals
Comrade This effect is all the stronger in the setting and atmosphere that has developed over centuries
university organization, bourgeois-class in origin, with
the leadership of old scientists, brought up by her in the same spirit. To use
call the science of these universities, the proletarian ‘must already stand above it in his
him worldview, to be prepared for its critical, and not just student-
sky perception. Consequently, for this purpose the Proletarian University
necessary, not as a replacement for the gymnasium, but as a school of a holistic worldview
and deep mastery of scientific methods.

But the workers' and peasants' government is reforming the old universities...
Maybe this reform, going further and further, will turn them into what
required for the proletariat? It would be extremely mistaken to place hope in this.

The fact is that rebuilding organizations created by the work of centuries and
fully formed ones are generally incomparably more difficult than building again. Only
Under one condition, such a restructuring can proceed quickly and successfully—when it
kisses the ready moDelhi. But to develop this model in the very old
universities, i.e., obviously, in inevitable cooperation with representatives
bourgeois science would mean perverting the solution to the problem at its very beginning.
It is clear that such a model should be developed quite independently over time.
tarek class ideological environment,

-

UP,

In the spring of 1918, an attempt was made to organize the Proletarian Uni-
university in Moscow. It ended in complete failure. Upon its liquidation,
the ranks were completely clear.

The first, and perhaps sufficient in itself, was that
the matter did not come from the collective and was not conducted collectively from the very beginning. This
was the initiative of a small circle of people who undoubtedly showed significant
body energy, but did not have the relevant experience. Plans and programs
developed hastily, turned out to be unsuccessful; lecture staff recruited for
based on insufficient connections, partly unsuitable for the task. Listening participation
officials in the management of university affairs was at first insignificant, and then it
was strengthened, the germs of the collapse had time to develop.

Another reason is also very important: the composition of the listeners in the majority
16 PROLETARIAN CULTURE... M 5

it turned out not to be proletarian. The audience was filled from the very beginning, mainly
Thus, the working intelligentsia of Soviet institutions. It would be harmful and
It is impossible to deny her access to the Proletarian University, but she is determined
predominance, defining the general spirit of the institution, was in conflict with the very
his idea. Teaching had, of course, to accommodate the majority
listeners; it is clear that on this path the real Proletarian University is not
could develop further

The conditions were terribly unfavorable: insanely tense
atmosphere of continuous political crisis, extremely hungry rations, with
torus, Soviet workers and workers no longer had the strength for scientific
labor, the departure of the most active youth to the front...

Under such circumstances there could be no success, and failure in the slightest
did not affect the degreedefines the very idea of ​​the institution. It was just done poorly
an attempt among a number of other similar attempts of our turbulent times.
“Now it has been liquidated, and those called upon by nature have taken up the matter
organizations to him,

UPG,

How should the Proletarian University be organized?

The first task is to create a suitable composition of listeners: proletarian
for the most part, corresponding in level to the idea of a university. According to this
Regarding this, the resolution of the All-Russian Proletkult Conference says:

"9. Access in. Proletarian Universities must be free first
queue for workers, only with what is necessary in the interests of the listeners themselves
physical test of knowledge. .

"10. All proletarian public institutions, factory establishments,
commercial and industrial, professional, cooperative must provide
its workers and employees the opportunity to attend university courses.”

The advantage for the workers is not any offense to the labor intelligentsia.
tions. The university must be proletarian, then she, working in it,
receives the most from him, because then the new will be most perfectly expressed in him.
worldview,

It will be possible to put this advantage into practice only through a system of scholarships.
tions outlined in the last paragraph of the resolution, “Provide
the opportunity to visit the University in most cases will, of course, be
is possible only through scholarships and sometimes partial, sometimes, maybe even half-

- more exemption from compulsory work”,

However, it is impossible to build the whole business on this basis alone. Needed
would be a huge expenditure of funds, and most importantly, a lack of strength in public affairs
feels too intense. Because of this, the very lessons in the first years will have to be
organize so that a particularly energetic or gifted person can s0-”
accommodate them with public service; therefore, in the evening, 3-4 hours
for five days of the week, with seminaries and other additional activities
on the remaining two days.

In the resolution of Proletkult,and pay attention to that feature,
what is allowed during admission is a “comradely test of knowledge”. In the state
At all universities, all preliminary examinations have been cancelled. Does that mean
is it that Proletkult has taken a more backward position? I have a feeling that ‘no.
The Proletarian University must also be a school of comradely relations
ideas and comradely discipline; hence the logical possibility
and the desirability of such verification. But in old universities it is impossible to install it
zya, because by their very spirit, by their type of organization,
verification would not have happened, and everything would have been reduced to the ordinary, scientifically bureaucratic
tic exam. r

What level will need to be taken as the basis for admission? Considering
with conditions. life of the workers that have dominated until now’, here it is necessary in advance
x

No. 5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 17

discard all formalism, all templates. The approximate norm for
which almost all knowledgeable people agree is: general education no less than
higher primary school of the available types or self-education in similar
on a hygienic scale, with gaps also allowed if they are balanced
broader knowledge in social or natural sciences.

But here it is necessary to introduce a requirement that was out of the question in the old days.
ry universities: demonstrated, civic activity, which witnesses
would mean that we are talking about a socially adult person, and not about a child,
a teenager or an inquisitive layman, the proof should be
or public position, or recommendation from political,
cultural, economic organizations,

From the same point of view, too young an age is also undesirable, no less than
e.g. 18 years old. Of course, in cases of particularly early development, exceptions are possible.

On such foundations it will be possible to form katsry listeners, indeed,
appropriate to the task. As for teachers, the same resolution
speaks of “the need to attract the best theoretical forces of our re-
revolutionary socialism" to create the first rguiding frame (item 3).
And regarding the future it is planned: . \

` "7. To train scientific teachers, it should serve
the existing Socialist Academy in Moscow and’ it is necessary to organize
call the same one in St. Petersburg. They owe workers who already have some
ry scientific experience, provide appropriate theoretical and practical support
cooking. Those students should continue their scientific work in them
Proletarian University, who, upon graduation, will devote themselves to professional
centrally to work in one or another field of science.” -

The implementation of this task has already begun: within the Socialist Academy
demy already now has comrade workers, not only among its listeners
courses, but also among competing members.

1x:

The resolution of the All-Russian Proletkult also outlines a general program
university plan. This plan includes three cycles: p

“a) preparatory—must formalize and systematize knowledge already
available to the listeners, as well as supplement them with all the knowledge necessary
we need to master the cycle of the basic

“b) basic - should be widely and firmly in a strictly scientific formulation -
lay the foundations of a socialist worldview, turning the listener into
an educated socialist who knows the basic methods of various fields
science;

“c) specialized—divided according to the structure of the social pro-
process for faculties: technical, economic and cultural; on every
of them, specifically in an in-depth scientific formulation, the corresponding
group of objects, but not in isolation from other groups, but in an unrelated
desired connection with them, with general departments of such basic subjects as
political economy".

Why a preparatory course is necessary is quite clear. Even the most
more developed of the workers entering the University, thanks to the lack
formal education, most will have knowledge gaps:
one has one, another has another, next to often great depth of inner
research in other areas; hence the inevitable heterogeneity of composition, the absence of
one commonabout, accessible to a clear definition of the level from which
teamwork could emanate. In addition, there is usually a lack of skills
knowledge and experience in the very techniques of scientific work. And finally, thanks
learning “on occasion”, “in between times”, depending on when it allows
life, almost everyone’s systematization is lame. These shortcomings must be eliminated

Iroletarian Culture, No. 5. 2
‘

` 18 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

nen, proper alignment and design of scientific material from the staff
Chatels must be achieved at the preparatory stage, 6

From here the nature of the program for this first course naturally follows:
a number of introductions on the technology of scientific work in general and on various scientific re- spects
Slam.

In the foreground here it is necessary to put the assimilation of practical methods
mastering science in individual and collective work: what is related
strives to be able to systematically use all kinds of literature, to be able to
express thoughts orally and in writing, the ability to argue and discuss logically,
and also lead meetings. These will be mainly practical sessions.
© a small number of introductory lectures. In choosing topics these practical
classes should be as closely related as possible to parallel activities
courses in other subjects, naturalistic and sociological, but not pro-
one hundred merge © them; there and during practical exercises the center of gravity lies
in the content of what is being learned, here in the formal and technical side of the matter.

The second group is mathematical and natural sciences. From mathematics
you need to take the lowest, but not the initial, of course, part of it, choosing the material
the most important from the point of view of the method and in the sense of connection with life practice:
operations with fractions; approximate calculation methods; solving equations;
use of logarithms; elementary techniques for determining distances, planes
spacing, volumes, etc. p,

Iv natural sciences - introduction to physics and chemistry; introduction to cosmography
science, geology and general geography; introduction to general biology; introduction to
physiology and psycho-physiology.

Here you have to have in mindyes, that limited time will not allow
give a lot of factual material. Therefore, we must choose the most important thing,
and find out the general provisions in a few, but the most striking and deeply intro-
drawing illustrations, for example, for physics classes, choose experiments,
having fundamental scientific or practical significance. Directly
The main goal should be depth of understanding, not completeness of knowledge. With this
points of view, several skillfully selected, clearly and accurately carried out and
strictly analyzed experiments will give more than hundreds of pages of textbooks
nicks or dozens of lectures.

This course, by the way, should certainly include familiarization with
principles of design of all main types of machines of modern technology:
water, steam, piston, turbine, explosive, dynamo and
electric motors, telegraph, telephone, airplane, phonograph, cinema
tographer, etc. The familiarization, of course, is not technically detailed, but it is also not
superficial, but “scientific-organizational”. ,

The third group is the social sciences: an introduction to political economy,
into general and Russian history, into the foundations of scientific socialism; history overview
labor movement and forms of labor organization; elementary doctrine of form
public knowledge, especially about law and state. Building courses here
must be historical everywhere, and where the old science cannot and
does not want to apply it, as in the study of economics, law, and state. Unpre-
the discontinuity of the historical series allows us to perceive the connection between phenomena visually
it, makes it more vitally understandable, makes it easier for consciousness to transition from some forms
to others, it generally saves energy spent on studying. At the same time
the employee’s thinking is brought up in a consistent and steady approach
our method—historical-materialistic.

And here again, the unfolding of the historical series should not be pursued
va completeness of all transitions and shades. Attention must be focused
on individual, most characteristic moments or episodes illustrating
life trendsnew phases of human development. Often an excerpt
authentic document of the era is more deeply and clearly characterized for listeners
the spirit of her relationship and the spirit of her struggle than the longest description and narrative
tion. And to restore the continuity of transitions between deeply understood,
№5 PVOLETARIAN CULTURE. 19

albeit episolically outlined phases, this is a matter of learned method and
Phobic mental work of the student.

X. `

The preparatory course program level of students of the main course is
“But it is planned, of course, not in the sense of the old equatorial template. worker,
possessing known skills in scientific work, knowledge, although unequal
measured, but in some important areas quite serious, and
embraced socialist worldview, can work on the basic
course, filling the remaining major gaps with additional classes
in the corresponding preparatory subjects. At first it will be
even the inevitably predominant combination: in large centers it is necessary to open
If possible, take the first and second courses at the same time; this is especially important
at the beginning, when there is still too little experience and when the very formulation of the matter is under control
preparation course can benefit a lot from covering one
temporary work of the basic course for which he is supposed to prepare.

The main course program naturally breaks down into two groups of pre-
metov—naturalistic (including mathematics here) and social. Convert
The social sciences should obviously take the leading place here, approximately
in the ratio of two-thirds of working hours to one-third, or three-fifths to two
fifth. But a strictly scientific formulation of the matter is equally required both here and there.

In mathematics, within a few tens of hours, which will be
assigned, it is necessary—and, we believe, quite possible—to give the basic methods
‘tan name. “higher mathematics” of differential and integral calculus,
analytical geometry, series theory. Here you need to use all the latest
simplification and improvement of teaching methods: from onesides, the closest
its convergence with the needs and requirements of labor technology; sample can
while serving as John Perry's lectures for working mechanics, where he, for example, introduces
them into the essence of analytical geometry through the use of graphene (coordination
nat) paper for the normal tasks of their work; on the other hand, just as tight
connection with the technology of natural science in the spirit, for example, “Applications of mathematics to natural sciences”
natural sciences” by Nernst and Schönflies. At the Proletarian University we must
develop your own methods of presentation and coverage of mathematical sciences; but for now
this is not the case, we must proceed from the best that has already been created by democratization
knowledge. 4:

The natural science program, in turn, should concentrate here
on basic methods and on higher generalizations while constantly maintaining
connections of both with the practice of living. From this point of view, we naturally intend
I have the following main tasks:

1. Methodology of natural sciences: observation, experiment, role of the worker
hypotheses; connection with technology and attitude to technical sciences; basic information
research instruments (watch, telescope, microscope, protractors, photography,
force and work meters, recording and recording instruments).

2. The main theories are evolutionary—cosmological, geological, biological
gical.

3. Basic general or abstract theories—energetics; theory of will; atom-
nary and electronic theory; theory of the structure of matter.

A, Basic methods and conclusions of the biological doctrine of labor force, i.e. physio-
logy, general pathology and psycho-physiology in connection with hygiene.

° This last group forms, as it were, a natural transition to the sciences of co-
cial. :

With skillful staging associated with well-chosen demonstrations
through experience and properly organized practical exercises, such pro-
gram, we believe, can be completed quite seriously in those 150-180 hours.
F0v, which will be given to her from the one-year course. \

2*
20 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

Program. social sciences, with all its vastness, represents
least costdays, because we have the most experience in this area.
It is logically outlined by the structure of the social process, which must
study, and the socialist purpose of this study. The grouping of sciences is approx.
strikingly like this:

1. History of social technology (in general connection with the history of mathematical
and natural sciences). Y

From it, in a special course, we should highlight as the most important for us
moment - machine production. and
2. Historical course of political economy.

It is important to highlight three important points from it:

a) Modern capitalism and in connection with it - militarism, world war,
new economic forms that emerged during it;
b) Agrarian evolution.
c) General theory of taxes and finance.
3. History of social worldviews.

The following should be specifically highlighted:
a) History of economic views.
b) a review of philosophical systems (as idealized schemes of the dominant
general worldviews).
c) General history of literature and art.
4. History of law and state.
5. History, socialism and social movements.

Here select 060bo:

a) Forms of workers' organizations.

b) Socialist ideal.

6. Historical materialism and the general system of scientific world relations—
summary course, |

No matter how extensive this program may seem, but with good organization, with
experienced managers for its serious passage, we believe, should
350-400 hours is enough.

There are many mutually touching objects here, and it is very important to organize
work things out so that those closest in material are intertwined in time,
reinforcing each other, for example, the history of technology with the history of economics, history
economic views with the history of socialism, etc. This is necessary, of course,
do in all other groups of subjects.

In terms of breadth of coverage and amount of content, the main course program is far from
surpasses the programs of any course of the old universities.’ But
it is not designed for carefree young men from the wealthy classes, but for people
labor and ideas, p

Xx.

The third course is already specialized: for an educated socialist,
kakim will be a person who has gone through the work of the course of the main, specialized
tion is not dangerous, cannot have an effect on him that narrows his horizons and exhausts his
shaking the soul. In addition, this specialization according to the Proletkult plan
completely different than. in old universities, - not on an abstract principle
classification of sciences taken by themselves, without relation to life, like mathematics
tical, natural, philological, etc. etc., and based on the structure of social
of the process as a whole; at the same time, groups of subjects of each faculty are
are called much more widely. And, in addition, the connection between faculties is supported by courses
some general sciences—the resolution names political economy,

What should be the program of these faculties? Outline it in detail
I wouldn’t dare, and it’s a little premature—in the beginning, there will probably be
№5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, 21

it is possible to open only the first two courses; for the third there is not enough
ny personnel. But I will try to describe the type of such program as it is presented to me.
is posed, using the example of one faculty—technical, while I will
draw from the plan of the “technical and economic department” of the Socio-
‹ listic Academy, in the work on the organization of which I recently had to
to participate, the scheme is as follows:
1. History of engineering and technical sciences (of course, “in in-depth scientific
production" compared to the same subject in the main course).
And here, too, a special process should be allocated—machine production.
ity in its technology and economics.
2. History of mathematics and natural sciences.
9; and mathematics, etc. accountantchild.
“Encyclopedia” is understood here in the sense that covers
on the one hand, the methodology of this group of subjects, on the other
goy—a presentation of the results and conclusions achieved in this area.
A, Encyclopedia of Natural Sciences. Here are the departments:
a) Measuring instruments and physical research methods.
b) Chemical research methods.

5. Encyclopedia of technology. Departments:
a) Use of materials from the bowels of the earth.
b) Use of materials sold on the earth's surface, and
060bo dedicated
6) Agricultural machinery. :
6. The doctrine of labor force (physiology, general pathology, peicho-finnology\

The course is mainly methodological). `{

A special subject should include:
The latest methods of studying and using working knowledge (Taylorism
it, d,):
7. Organization of a separate enterprise (technical and economic)—
subject shared with the Faculty of Economics.
8. Political economy (specially - methodology and criticism of economics)
ical teachings)—kure, common to all faculties.
9. General organizational science—a course common to all faculties.
As for the program of the Faculty of Economics, it obviously
natural science, for example, will be provided much weaker, -socio-historical
scientific sciences, ‘on the contrary, are stronger than it. p.
The third year ends the “educational” part of the university. The one who goes
further, enters the field of scientific and academic work, which should also
be organized collectively.

r

Except. courses included in the main plan of the university, with. he needs
It is possible to organize a number of additional activities of different nature and significance.
Thus, some of those entering the preparatory course will lack
current even in basic information on arithmetic, ‘others have a lot of inability
write something tolerable; Foreigners will need Russian language classes. Multi-
Some will wish to learn new languages, which, however, are in the main work plan
no need to enter. Many, because of their public functions, are still at first
The course will require familiarity with the basics of statistics, etc. d.

There is plenty of time for such additional and auxiliary activities.
allotted. especially. If daily evening classes continue in general
3 hours of time, then this will be 4 hours of “academic”, counting 40 minutes per lecture
tion and from 5 to 10 for a break - all sorts of useless waste of time is necessary here
eliminated, Then the first three can be assigned to work according to the program plan
academic hourand, for additional and auxiliary - the fourth, and also
22 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

some hours on the unoccupied two days of the week, left by some for rest and
public affairs, partly for special seminaries, excursions, etc.

In the future, those at the university should be concentrated. many
"long and varied practical courses that are now organized
at different institutions and organizations: for the professional movement,
.on cooperation, party propaganda, various instructors, etc. This
will allow university students to use, on occasion, lectures from such
courses, and vice versa, will have a good effect on the scientific nature of their formulation and will give
a small saving of lecturers, and most importantly, it will expand and strengthen the communication of the Uni-
university with the province, which sends them to short-term courses in their business
gats.

However, along with this, a kind of “dispersion” of the University will be required.
theta. In the resolution of the All-Russian Proletkult says that such Universities
should be organized in all major industrial centers of Russia,
starting from Moscow and St. Petersburg. But in such huge centers as capitals,
to bring the University closer to the working population, it will be necessary to at least
At least, the preparatory course should be arranged in parallel in the main proletarian
areas. There it, in turn, can serve as a center for unification
different regional courses and clubs.

*f
*

The difficulties of the path, and even more the demands of life, will inevitably be
attract many from the University until the completion of its work cycle. But it's not
should confuse us: after all, even then what has been done will not be in vain. The most
the program is such that with each course you will still be able to give something whole
and certain. Comrade, who has seriously completed the preparatory course,
may be a fairly conscious agitator or a useful non-response
an official employee of some institution. Completing the basic course
will give an already knowledgeable propagandist and responsible worker
cialista. Responsible people will also graduate from the specialized course.a-
Botanical specialists, and on occasion, lecturers, although not of higher courses.

For further special scientific work according to the All-Russian plan
The Socialist Academy must serve as the Russian Proletkult. What
is she like that? t

It is not something essentially different from the Proletarian Univer-
site. This is, due to circumstances, a certain situation that had already taken shape earlier.
his part, his scientific team. Temporarily, and generally partially replacing him,
takes part in his educational work, but only partly and not in the main thing. Me-
I am waiting for her and the birth of her University; a close connection is needed, which
in due time will culminate in their complete organizational merger.

One of the most important tasks of the University and the Academy will be the development
plans and programs of those lower. courses that failed the masses
to the University itself. In this way he developed from the highest proletarian school
will return to the Workers' University in the broad sense of the word - to a holistic system
“the theme of institutions providing deep and complete socialist education
to the proletariat.

A. Bogdanov.
m

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 23

Organization of literary creativity. ‘

If you look closely at the biographies of Russian writers of the serfdom period,
quality, for example, the beginning and middle of the twentieth century, and give yourself an account of the conditions in
which their creative work took place, it will be easy to outline a typical
the environment necessary for the literary work of a pre-bourgeois writer
era. Three main elements determined the success of creativity. Before
The writer created everything in moments of leisure. Even in cases where literature
tour was his main profession, creative work was not carried out online
mathematically from day to day, or even from year to year, and during periods of special
leisure, and therefore extremely stretched. Goncharov, who spent on each
A novel of ten years is a typical example.

This slowness and unplanned nature of the creative process by the writers themselves
satels was explained by the fact that creative work could only be done
when there is “inspiration”. All the poetry of the first halfwe of the twentieth century are imbued
this theme about the “muse”, which sometimes flies to the poet and gives his pen creative
sky strength. This inspiration could only appear involuntarily, independently
This is from the poet himself. He could only wait patiently for this moment
ecstasy and call upon the muse to “visit him.” Outside the period of inspiration work
the writer could not be accomplished. And since these minutes of “visiting the muse” would
are not too frequent and rather irregular, then the whole work of the writer
had some kind of random, chaotic, disorganized character. B
the field of fine arts (painting, sculpting) is still strong
this is a feature of the creativity of people of the pre-bourgeois era. .

Finally, the third feature of the writers of the serfdom era was
their individualistic isolation. The work was done in the office, in privacy
neniya, in a special artificial distance from the noise of the world and from other
people, No outsider interfered in this individualistic work.
Organized joint performances by a group of writers are extremely rare
took place. Such speeches: most often had the nature of an alma-
nakhov", i.e. collections of articles, poems and stories related purely mechanically
ki. Magazines of this era were very close to almanacs. They're almost
did not know either editorial control and management, or collective” literature
tour work. The newspaper existed as a collection of chronicled facts and
official orders and rather outside the literature.

The bourgeois system, of course, could not come to terms with such unsystematic
the slowness and randomness of writing. Fast those of life
capitalist society could not tolerate work that is done only
“at your leisure” and is not of a systematic machine nature. Even less so
could take into account inspiration as the main condition of literary work. Ka-
The capitalist system presented its general demand to literary figures.
goal: deliver creative products quickly and on time. And finally he brought in
and a well-known element of organization and collectivismand into the work of writers.
He created periodicals and especially newspapers, which demanded
strict planning and consistency of work and created an analogy of a factory
and for writers.

Russian literature was not long enough under the influence of the new
bourgeois regime, and therefore gives us few typical examples for characterizing
characteristics of literary creativity during the heyday of capitalism, therefore
It is better to turn to Western Europe for typical samples. Zola during
throughout his literary career he worked day in and day out and wrote regularly
one printed page per day. Works with the same methodology
the vast majority of novelists, poets and journalists in Europe and America
Ricky. Remember Wells, Shaw, Anatole France, London and countless others
the number of minor, but quite gifted and popular writers
<ateliers.
*

24 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

It has become a truism that “inspiration” is not at all a necessary element.
mentbm creativity. Of course, there are times when the literary process
creativity is accomplished with particular ease and success, but this is by no means
means that work done in moments of complete absence of “inspiration”
Venya”, in its final results was lower than the pages written “inspiration”
novenu. with a pen." And most importantly, systematic and methodical writing
work introduced “inspiration” itself into the framework of the creative process. Writer
stopped waiting for the “visit of the muse.” He can often inspire inspiration with his
creative effort. It also became quite obvious that "inspiration"
is by no means a special privilege of writers and artists.

A typical product of the capitalist system is a newspaper with particular inefficiency.
mercilessly destroyed the previous psychology of literature and overturned
the bottom of the entire system of its work.

The element of collectivity is particularly evident in newspaper work.
creativity. An individual participant in a newspaper, be it an editor or a leading editor,” chronic
Nicker, the correspondent completely loses her individuality, even her
name. Everyone is involvedIC of the newspaper does its part of the work, obeying the ob-
general plan. If he writes an article, then even its topic is usually given to him from the outside
by another person. His work on an article or note is subject to strict restrictions.
differences not only in size, but also in the interpretation of the topic. It is carried out in accordance with
divided time, since articles must be ready, say, by
six o'clock in the evening, a chronicler's note - by ten, a report on what had just happened
our meeting or a review of the performance we have just seen - by one in the morning, etc. d.

Even writers not closely associated with a newspaper or magazine are forced
give up waiting for inspiration or searching for leisure for creativity,
Publishing capital does not tolerate inaction; typographical. cars to
pay off, need manuscripts from authors; books, magazines; going out
exactly on time, cannot appear without certain literary material.
Therefore, the novelist, poet and journalist must write with the same systematicity as
how a worker works. In their work they must submit to the general organization
according to the specific plan of the publisher or editor and carry out a certain part
general teamwork.

In the organization of the newspaper business there are already many elements, extremely
characteristic of all possible types of collective literary creativity
quality. During the creation of a socialist press organ: this moment of collective
The situation deepens even more. First of all, the general direction of the newspaper is dictated
collectively organized by the will of the proletariat. Creativity teaches everyone
newspapers are subject to voluntary and conscious discipline,

Not only are the topics for articles outlined by the editorial team, but
even the general interpretation of the topics is indicated in the joint discussion. Each
a separate article or note receives meaning and significance only in close connection
with all the serial number. In addition, the socialist newspaper contacts

close ties with its readers and relies on this mutual exchange of ideas „

feelings, moods and sympathies. |

Thus, not only externalnewspaper work framework,
but also its very inner essence. The work of a whole complex team of co-
The workers who create the newspaper receive integrity and harmonious unity.

`In the field of literary partnership, an even greater organization is conceivable
importance and unification of individual creative efforts. Office space where
literary work proceeds in complete isolation, will occupy literary
a studio in which certain parts of the creative process will be carried out
by different persons, but with complete internal consistency.

Bourgeois society knows several attempts at joint creativity,
but most of them have the character of a jointly written novel, which
Rome was somehow amused by the tabloid Blue Magazine with the assistance of Kuprin,
Teffi and others. In this novel, every chapter was written but. with a face, without anything.
agreement with other co-authors, and the task of each of the writers was
No. 5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 25

not giving the work internal unity and integrity, but rather artificial
significant complication of the topic in order to complicate its further development. Ta-.
Which novel is a typical creation of bourgeois culture in an era of decline (no wonder
and its theme is detective-criminal). It purely externally connects the co-authors
around an imposed theme, and a common one: their work results in the most absurd
literary mosaic, devoid of elementary conditions ‘presented
to every work, - integrity and unity,

A proletarian studio working in the spirit of the socialist ideal will
publish collective works using a completely different method. Unity
whole, coordination of parts, harmony of plan and execution, form and s0-
Tserzhaniya will be at the heart of the studio’s work.

The Literature Studio of Proletkult will begin its activities with purely creative
tical work. The authors, gathering on certain days, will read their
works, and those gathered will begin to subject what they are reading to careful scrutiny.
tic analysis. This kind of critical work is sometimes done
and existing bourgeois literary societies andorganization. But there
this criticism of works not yet planned is a rare exception.
Very few works are presented by a bourgeois author to the public before publication.
chatting, and even less often in these cases does he listen to the voice of criticism or
responds to comments and objections made to him, Most often criticism and the public
gets acquainted with the work already in printed, finished form. Critical issues
the author hears the desires after his creative work is completed, and he,
according to absurd tradition and bourgeois inertia, never responds to cri-
tics and, moreover, never reworks his artistic works
tions under the influence of the comments made.

The proletarian studio strives through criticism of the works being read
make a certain adjustment to the creativity of its individual member. She is in-

` is sewing the author’s still unfinished literary work and expects life from him
best response to your comments and instructions. Fellow studio members, criticizing themselves
adjacent to the chain! elements that create a work.

Reading of works before their publication in the circle of people from whom the author
endot active participation in one's work should become in the society of the future
one of the same everyday occurrences as some lectures and abstracts on
current issues of public life. Between the writers' room and the editor's office
tion or typesetting will be the studio or other critical collective crucible,
which will subject the work to the purifying test of Ogiem.

This comradely critical work will, however, be only one of them. ele-
cops, and, perhaps; not the most important of the studio's overall activities, much more
the essential point will be genuine direct creativity, collective
tive writing.

The literary work of these studios can be divided into several separate
new moments.

The first is the choice of topic, plot, task. Many authors have special
new ability to find a 6 rewarding plot with complete inability to more
or it is less tolerable to edit it. Let them give their topics to others. Let themwe
and plots, and perhaps individual parts of these plots (scenes, paintings, epi-
Zods, individual types and provisions) are received in the studio. From this treasury
ideas will be drawn from others, these themes will be developed by everyone who senses
there is an attraction towards them.

The topics themselves will be subject to review and critical evaluation; Right there
the form that will be most suitable for this or that
a different plan, of course, in the most general terms. One plot is suitable for drama,
the other would be better used for a small one. story, that topic is good for
novel, this one is for a poem.

Moving on to assessing the plot and the possible development of it in one form or another,
the literary studio has already embarked on the path of realizing the plan, on the path of writing
government
26 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

Here, at studio meetings, some topics will be translated into literature.
Ratural works. The studio participants were right there, in the next room, sketching
they write poems, a story, a scene on the intended topic, and these works are not yet
done, unfinished, will be brought back to the discussion ‘studio, dis-
branes, corrected, and, perhaps, completed by someone else or others.

Evenings of improvisation, when the intensive creative process is timed
to a strictly defined moment and often to a designated topic, will be the usual
phenomenon of the Proletkult studio. They will accustom the writer to a new method
work - “in public”, with the complicity of others, with the comradely assistance of servants
chatels and co-authors.

: It is in such a studio that any collective work can be written
a work marked with the stamp of internal unity and artistic value:
How exactly such a work will be created, of course, cannot be foreseen.
It is impossible now to say with precision in what forms the collective
nal literary work in studios. Maybe separate chapters will be written
were created by different persons, perhaps certain types and provisions will be developed
nerds and embodied by different authors, it may finally be that everything is
denitionwill. written by just one person, but with constant and systematic
complicity in the work of other members of the studio - they will develop the plot, give a diagram
works, outline the character, etc. etc., and will begin to critically discuss the written
new in all stages of writing work.

It goes without saying that these experiments in collective writing are by no means
will not exclude the creative work of individuals, they will only give it a new
push.

Of course, with the organization of literary creativity that meets the communi-
the nistic spirit of the new era, while we have to grope. Individual
otic psychology and individualistic skills that left their stamp
even the proletariat is difficult to immediately destroy or overcome. Literary
Proletkult studios will be able to outline new possible ways for organizing
creativity of writers.

V, Nerzhentsev.

First All-Russian Proletarian Conference
Cultural and Educational Organizations.

Between September 15-20, the All-Russian Proletarian Conference took place.
Russian Cultural and Educational Organizations. The proletariat poked a lot
congresses and conferences, but he focused all his attention on them exclusively
particularly on issues of political and economic struggle. And only after
October Revolution, when the dictatorship of the proletariat opened up to the worker
class greatest horizons, he began to solve a new problem -
problems of a new culture, a strictly class proletarian culture.

Not a single conference in the world has yet discussed this issue, and most
On a Russian scale, such a conference was the first; so she will have

enormous historical significance and special meaning.

The conference was attended by 564 people; of which 330 delegates and 234
guest. The conference was held at the most unfavorable moment, when counter-
revolutionary gangs of Czechoslovaks cut off Samara, the Urals, and Siberia from us
and other areas. One of the instructors of the Organizing Convocation Bureau
conference was shot in the Urals by the White Guards, as well. others are forced
were to return to Moscow without completing thisface of the task entrusted to them due to
for martial law. It was the moment when all the best comrades were in a hurry
to the front to eliminate the offensive of the mercenaries of the counter-revolution, and thus
no less, delegates from almost all localities arrived at the conference; huge-
No. 5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 27

}
The number of guests shows with what deep interest the proletariat
is watching. for the development of cultural and educational work. And this is quite understandable.
The working class realizes that the gains of the revolution can be firmly consolidated
not only by military victories, but also by the development of socialist consciousness, social
linguistic psychology, socialist life of the creators and builders of the new
life,

All the work of the conference took place under the ideological influence of the magazine “Prole-
Tara Culture". True, in the speeches of individual members of the conference - people's
kovs, 9s-ers and anarchists - voices were heard saying that there is no and cannot be
exclusively proletarian culture, and only the culture of the general public is possible
native, universal, there is no proletarian science, there is no proletarian art,
but these lonely voices were completely drowned in that enthusiasm and unanimity,
with which the conference spoke about the development of proletarian culture, as a turn-
new independent task of the working class. r

In its general resolution, the conference specifically states “that cultural
the educational movement among the proletariat must take an independent
place next to the political and economic movement that its task is
development of proletarian culture, which, with the destruction of class in society,
from 060g0 division will become universal."

The importance of Proletkult’s work in this direction was emphasized in
his greeting to the conference and comrade. Lenin. He wrote: “All our successes are
are called because the workers took up ‘government of the state through their councils.
But the workers have not yet understood this enough and are overly timid in the matter of
movement of workers to govern the state. Fight for this, comrades.
Let the proletarian cultural and educational organstions will help this.
This is the key to further success and the final victory of the socialist
revolution." If at the beginning of the conference there were hesitators and doubters
is whether Proletkult is needed when there is a People's Commissariat for Pro-
light, then at the end of it these doubts disappeared forever, and the discussion went on ‘
plane, how to distinguish the work of one institution from the work of another, so that
avoid parallelism, which is always associated with unnecessary labor costs.

And in general it must be said, if earlier not only in the provinces, but... and in a hundred
persons did not quite clearly understand what proletarian culture and Nrolet-
cult, then after the conference it became clear to the proletariat that Proletkult is—
one of the close, dear organizations in which they can develop their creative
ical forces in the field of building a new life.

The main point of view was illuminated by and. all other issues discussed at the
interference.

On the issue of nafka and the working class, the conference emphasized that, “science

it considers it as an instrument for organizing social labor, which in Rus-
the ruling class has hitherto served as an instrument of domination, but
in the hands of the working class, the instrument of its social struggle, victory
and construction and recognizes the main task in the scientific field as socialization
science." | :
On the question of the attitude of the proletariat to art, the main point of view
was formulated in the following position: “Art organizes the media-
with the help of visual images, social experience not only in the sphere of cognition, but also
in the sphere of feelings and aspirations. As a result, it is a powerful weapon
organizations of collective forces, in a club society - class forces.”

Having set before oneself a great and difficult task—the development of a proletarian
culture, science and art, the conference also indicated the main principle
tion according to which the restructuring of life should take place - “construction
the new culture should be based on social labor and comradeship
cooperation." Individualistic anarchic principletion of the bourgeois
culture was not protected by anyone.

Despite the fact that the question of bourgeois culture was raised sharply
and certainly, despite the fact that the culture of the old world is associated with the idea of

28 PROLETARIAN CULTURE, No. 5

violence and exploitation of the broad masses of the people, the conference did not fall into rough
anarchic sweeping denial of the culture of past generations. On the contrary,
she recognized the need to comprehend and assimilate the achievements of past generations so that,
having processed them from your class point of view, use them in your
construction.

` Once upon a time comrade. Lunacharsky wrote: “It would, however, be a lie to say
that a complete understanding of the question of the relationship of class culture to universal humanity
This is a common thing among the workers themselves and their friends. I don't deny
that it is not so difficult among us socialists to find this or that young man,
not always uneducated in the formal sense, who shouts to you fervently:
“To hell with bourgeois culture.” .

After the conference, we can proudly state that the’ questions
proletarian culture attracts mainly people who have already left
from adolescence, and among them there are no indisputable deniers of bourgeois culture
tour. If this was noticed before, now this stage has passed, it has passed into history.
riya." `

The unanimity with which the resolutions of the plenary and sectional
meetings, shows that during the year of its dictatorship the proletariat was so
dived that he immediately felt and determined his class position in matters of cultural
vigorous construction of life.

Despite the fact that at this conference, like at the first, there is a lot of time
and attention should have been occupied by theoretical, programmatic issues, so that
outline on an all-Russian scale the main milestones of the work, the speeches of the speakers are not
were of a purely theoretical, abstract nature. On the contrary, efficiency
and practical approach were reflected even in the welcoming speeches. This is quite
interesting, if we take into account the special love of Russians for long discussions
siyam and discussions. There’s no need to talk about sectional work.goes. Who would-
attention on them, he knows how carefully even the smallest practices were discussed there.
tic questions. Delegates from the provinces showed particular persistence,
}where you have to set up and carry out work by touch, at your own peril, without any
experience and support from comrades and institutions that already have some
ry skills in this work.

The conference consisted of the following sections: on cultural and educational
specific tasks of trade unions and labor cooperation, about the worker
university, about proletarian clubs, about working with youth, literary
publishing, fine arts, proletarian theater and proletarian
music.

There was intense work going on in all sections, but the delegates were especially interested in
entailed questions about the workers' club and work with youth. Number of participants
meetings of the first section at times reached 110 people, and the second question was
even moved to the plenary session. This is explained by the fact that the workers' club
is the most widespread, the very first cultural unit of the worker
class, in which he, with the correct formulation of the matter, can concentrate all
his socio-political life, where he can develop all his epic
properties and satisfy all requests. There will be a workers' club. fold
new way of life to come.

The interest in the second question—about working with youth—is quite understandable.
We are well aware that our generation, born in the dark years of the Bur-
Juave culture, is infected with many of the prejudices of this culture. In life
one can often observe the fact that communists by conviction and, moreover, old
proven comrades, faithful and devoted to the cause of the revolution, who have walked the path
great, sometimes inhuman suffering, in private life very often
are with bourgeois habits. You need to be a communist not only
conviction, but also in his entire life, in his entire everyday life, throughout his entire psychology.
And for this you need to raise a child in socialist principles © first
glimpses of his consciousness.

The Conference directed that the Central Committee of thetook oletkult
take on the work of raising children - it is unlikely that this will be possible in the near future
No. 5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 20

due to lack of necessary workers; and the conference itself, in its decision,
bavila; "as far as possible." But work with youth is our priority
duty. If you don’t have the strength to take a child in your hands from 3-5 years old, then at least
At least, we will focus our attention on teenagers from 15 years old. It's just like that
the period when beliefs begin to take shape, and here Proletkult should
come to the rescue with your collectivist Marxist ideology.

We will not dwell on the work of each section: their results
enshrined in the printed resolutions below. For those interested in details,
We refer you to the conference protocols that will be released the other day.

The conference was held in a very organized manner. Intensive work
cont. lied, as planned, for six days. The interest in the case did not wane until recently.
her minutes; on the last day there were three lenary meetings and almost half-
Nominal composition of the conference. ›

And only when the last business phrase of the last report died down,
those feelings that united those gathered and which were
hidden behind business work.

The conference ended with a farewell speech from the chairman, Comrade. P.I. Le-
Bedev-Polyansky. )

“We have accomplished,” he said, “a great historical work that,
will undoubtedly be taken into account in the future by us, in the Soviet Republic, and in other countries.
nah. We have resolved a number of issues that were barely visible before -
and they resolved it in such a way that we can say with great satisfaction that we have laid
the first lasting stone of proletarian culture. But of course we haven't been able to yet
build the building itself. We have outlined methods, paths, we have fulfilled the ideological
ical part of the work. We can be justly proud only when this
the ideology will be brought to life when you take the most active action on the ground
work according to those plans and methods that you, with rare unanimity, adopted
hired at the conference. In close unity with each other we willdem commit
our great cause is the construction of proletarian culture, but you must not
rely entirely on us; remember, without you we at the center are powerless. We can
write many excellent and interesting articles on these and other issues about
letarian culture, offer many useful declarations, plans, instructions
tions, but if you don’t work in the field, you won’t be able to provide
to give us moral support by pointing out our mistakes, then it is not our business to
children stand on solid ground.

We were so unanimous in all decisions and pronounced with such enthusiasm
force the words “proletarian culture”, lighting up each time with a spark that
ry inspired us in our work: bring this light into life to the places where
your comrades, with whom you will think over all sorts of little details of work, too
lit up with this sacred light; then the life of Proletkult will be different,
intense and bright.

Let us give our strength, our knowledge, our creative impulse to a new business.

You, of course, remember the biblical story about Elder Simeon. I'm breathing. ‘life
he expected the Messiah and, seeing Jesus, exclaimed: “Now you are releasing your servant.”
Some of us Bolsheviks, who nine years ago raised the
ask the question about. proletarian culture, they thought, as if through all the obstacles of the reaction-
tions, through the path of difficult theoretical disputes and disagreements, to convey this banner
and lay the first stone. And now, closing the First All-Russian Con-
conference of Proletkult, to me, as one of those who held. banner, ho-
I would like to say with pride, ‘that we carried this banner and unfurled it, The current
day we hand it over to you, in your reliable hands.

comrades! Hold the banner firmly, carry it with honor, unfurl it
bolder and more confident. Erect it locally and build a new life for them, pro-
Letarian culture. Showcase the creative power of the working class.

We were unanimous in our work here. Let's stay united
and then, when you bring new ideas to the field,”
30 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. } No. 5

Stormy applause, "hurray""for proletarian culture and singing Inter-
nationals were the final chord.

The honorary chairmen of the conference were Comrade. V.I. Lenin and comrade.
A. V. Lunacharsky,

Telegrams of welcome were sent to Comrade. Lenin, then not yet justified
recovering from wounds inflicted by the counter-revolutionary hand of a mad woman
shina, the Red Army, heroically defending the proletarian revolution,
and the international revolutionary proletariat, in the person of comrades K. Libk-
Necht and F. Adler, R. Luxemburg, who were then still in prison, and Heglund.

After the closing of the conference, a concert of the Petrograd Prolet took place.
cult and large rally.

During the conference, an exhibition of the Fine Arts Departments was opened
Arts of the Petrograd and Moscow Proletkults and organized two evenings,
at which the Petrograd and Moscow Proletkults demonstrated
achievements of their studios. works

As in any new business, in these demonstrations the shortcomings were immediately visible.
pairs of works, nevertheless, these undertakings are interesting and speak of creative development
both; It was not for nothing that both evenings gave rise to a lengthy discussion.

The conference adopted the charter and determined the composition of the All-Russian Council
Proletkult and its Central Committee.

Elected to the Central Committee: Chairman I. I. Lebedev (V. Po-
Lyansky), comrade Chairman—F. I. Kalinin and A, I, Mashirov (Originalist), .
secretary V.V. Ignatov; members of the Central Committee - A. A. Bogdanov, N. M. Vasilevsky,
S. K. Galichev, M. P. Gerasimov, A. A. Dodonova, V. V. Kassior, V. T. Kirillov,
I. I. Nikitin, K. A. Ozol, I. I. Sadofiev and V. P. Faydyli.

To the Board of the Department of Proletarian Culture under the People's Commissariat
Enlightenment selected: F.I. Kalinin, A.I. Mashirov (Samobytnik) and V.P.
Faydni.

To the editors of the magazine “Proletarskaya Kultura”, as the central organ
All-Russian Council of Proletkult, elected: A. A. Bogdanov, F. I. Kalinin,
V. Kerzhentsev, P. I. Lebedev (V. Polyansky) and A. I. Mashirov (Samobytnik).

So, the foundation of a new form of labor movement, cultural and educational
telny, `laid, fundamentale principles are understood and unanimously enshrined
in the conference resolutions.

Now, comrades, we will work to put them into practice. Task
difficult, but let us believe that we will solve it.

: V. Nunavin.

Resolutions of the Conference. .
Greetings from Comrade N. Lenin to the Presidium of the Conference.

Dear comrades! I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your good wishes and in my
I wish you the best success in your work.

One of the main conditions for the victory of the socialist revolution is to
power by the working class and the implementation of the rule of this class for a time.
transition from capitalism to socialism. The dominance of the vanguard of all workers
those being exploited and exploited, i.e. proletariat, it is necessary for this transition
time for the complete destruction of classes, to suppress resistance to exploitation
atators, to unite the entire mass of workers and exploited, downtrodden,
oppressed, dispersed by capitalism around urban workers in close
our alliance with them,

+ All our successes are due to the fact that the workers understood this and took up management
government by the state through its Councils.
No. 5 PROPETARIAN CULTURE. ‚, 3t

But the workers have not yet understood this enough and are often overly timid
in the matter of promoting workers to govern the state. :
Fight for this, comrades! Let the proletarian cult.-enlightenment. organization"
tions will help this. This is the key to further success and final victory.
<socialist revolution,
With greetings V. Ulyanov (Lenin).
}

General resolution.
(Speaker P. LEBEDEV-POLYANSKY.)

First All-Russian Conference of Proletarian Cultural-Enlightenment
bodies of organizations, indicating

1) what is Cultural and Educational. the movement among the proletariat must
take an independent place next to the political and economic movement
niyam,

2) that its task is to develop a proletarian culture, which
“with the abolition of class division in society ‘will become universal,

3) that the construction of this new culture should be based on general
personal labor and comradely cooperation

‘believes:

1) the goals are achievedThe proletariat must comprehend the task at hand
all the achievements of the previous culture, to assimilate from it everything that one carries
to mark the universal;

2) he must perceive all these assimilation critically and process them into
the crucible of his class consciousness;

3) proletarian culture must have the character of a revolutionary co-
socialism, so that the proletariat can arm itself with a new title, organizational
express your feelings through new art and transform your everyday
relations in a new spirit, truly proletarian, i.e. collectivistic;

4) in the matter of building a new culture, the proletariat must show
the maximum of your class energy, your initiative, also taking advantage
with the help of the revolutionary socialist intelligentsia, since this is possible
possible;

5) laying the foundation for a new form of labor movement “Proletkul-
Comrade", defending their organizational independence, so that in its entirety
strictly class proletarian creativity could unfold, Conference
believes that government institutions, central and local, should
contribute by all means to the new movement in order to more firmly consolidate
conquest of Proletarskaya. Revolutions to defeat the bourgeoisie not only
materially, but also spiritually, in order to quickly erect a new building of the future
socialist society.

Adopted unanimously with 5 abstentions.
16/1X 1918

Science and the working class.
(Speaker A. BOGDANOV.)

First All-Russian Conference of Proletarian Cultural-Enlightenment
organizations, considering science as a tool for organizing social
a lot of labor, which in the hands of the ruling classes has hitherto also served
an instrument of domination, but in the hands of the working class it must serve as an instrument of it
‹social struggle, victory and construction, recognizes the main task in scientific
in this area, the socialization of science, i.e.:

1) systematic revision of scientific material with collective work
howl point of view; |

2) its systematic presentation in relation to the conditions and consumption
<tyam of proletarian work, both everyday and revolutionary;
32 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

3) mass dissemination of scientific knowledge in such a transformed way:
form. .

The Conference believes that the main organizational means for
such socialization of science should be:

1) creation of a Workers’ University, in the form of an integral system of cultural-
educational institutions built on comradely cooperation
teachers and students and consistently leading the proletarian to the perfect
possession of scientific methods and the highest achievements of science;

2) based on the activities of the Workers’ University, the development of Workers’ En-
cyclopedia, harmonious, brought to the point of greatest simplicity and clarity of presentation
understanding the methods and achievements of science from a proletarian point of view,

Adopted unanimously with 7 abstentions.
QUIET. 1918.

Proletariat and art.
(Speaker A. BOGDANOV.)

1) Art organizes social experience through living images
not only in the sphere of ‘cognition’, but also in the sphere of feelings and aspirations. Following-
As a result of this, it is the most powerful instrument for organizing collective forces,
in a class society—class forces,

2) The proletariat to organize its forces in social work and struggle
and construction needs its own class art. The spirit of this art—
labor collectivism: it perceives and reflects the world from the point of view of labor
of the creative team, expresses the connection between its feelings, its fighting and creative will.

3) The treasures of old art should not be accepted passively: then
they would educate the working class in the spirit of the culture of the ruling classes
and thus herself in the spirit of submission to the system of life they created. Treasures of the
The proletariat must take a critical look at the art of art,
in its new interpretation, revealing their hidden collective foundations and
their organizational meaning. Then they are a precious heritage for
proletariat, a weapon in its struggle against the same old world that
created them, and an instrument in the dispensations of the new world. The transfer of this artistic
legacy must be fulfilledThis is proletarian criticism.

4) All organizations, all institutions dedicated to the development of new things
art and new criticism, must be built on comradely cooperation
poverty, which directly educates their workers in the direction

©socialist ideal. at

Adopted unanimously with 1 abstention.
20/1X 1918

Resolution on the Workers' University.
(Speaker A. MASHIROV-SAMOBYTNIK.)

1) Concentration of the state apparatus in the hands of the Workers and Peasants
government creates the possibility of immediate organization of the Proletarian
Universities as higher schools and centers of proletarian science.

2) In Proletarian Universities, the preletariat should be provided
the possibility of complete mastery of scientific experience on the basis of its demonstration has been demonstrated.
verification from our cash point of view, in order to strengthen, deepen and further
the greatest development of all the gains of the revolution,

3) To develop programs and create the first leadership cadre,
submitters need to attract the best theoretical forces of our revolution
revolution socialism, mainly from the Communist Party and sympathizers

those who worship her
No. 5 with PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 33

A) Control over the nature of the program and the general conduct of affairs in Prole-
‘Tara Universities belong to the conference and congresses of proletarian
cultural and educational organizations.

5) The very development of programs should be carried out in cooperation - leadership
teachers and listeners. Everything should be built on this same cooperation
teaching and internal autonomous organization of University life. Tips
Universities should consist of representatives from students and management
tel with the participation of representatives of Proletkults, the People's Commissariat
for Education and local councils.

6) The program tasks of Proletarian Universities consist of 3 cycles
or course:

a) the preparatory student must formalize and systematize the knowledge already
available to the listeners, as well as supplement them with all the knowledge necessary
to master the basic cycle;

6) the main dolyaken is wide and durable, in a strictly scientific mannerproper setting, lay down
the foundations of a socialist worldview, turning the listener into an educated
a great socialist who masters the basic methods of the main fields of science;

c) specialized is divided in accordance with the construction of public pro-
process, to the faculties of technical, economic and cultural; on every
and in them they specifically study in an in-depth scientific formulation the corresponding
a group of objects, but not in isolation from other groups, but in a necessary connection
© them, with common departments of such basic subjects as political eco-
nomiya. b}

7) For the training of scientific teachers, it should serve as a
existing Socialist Academy in Moscow, and it is necessary to organize
the same one in Petrograd. They must workers who already have some scientific
significant experience, provide appropriate theoretical and practical training.
In them, those workers who according to
After graduating from the Proletarian University, they will devote themselves to special work in
one or another field of science.

8) Proletarian Universities should be organized in all major
industrial centers of Soviet Russia, starting with Moscow and Petrograd.

9) Access to Proletarian Universities must be free in the first place
queue for workers, only with what is necessary in the interests of the listeners themselves, comrades
physical test of knowledge.

10) All proletarian public institutions, factory establishments,
commercial and industrial, professional, cooperative, must and provide
provide your workers and employees with the opportunity to attend university courses.

Adopted unanimously with 3 abstentions.
18LH 1918

Resolution on the issue © workers' clubs.
(Speakers: St. KRIVTSOV and S. KRZHIZHANOVSKY.)

The working workshop of the proletariat to develop its culture is
proletarian club.

This is only possible if all the work of the club is based on
on the creative activity of all its members.

To overcome the everyday philistinism that dominates family
wearing workers, clubs must actively preventcommunicate with him, involving him in your
her new life of all members of the proletarian family.

To involve the broad masses of the proletariat in its work, the Nlub divides
with her with all my achievements.

Organizationally, all professional clubs must be linked together
local Proletkult.

Proletarian Culture. No. 5, 3
34 PROLVTARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

The completion of all this construction will be the Palace of the Proletarian Kul -
tours. r

Addendum to the resolution.

The conference invites local comrades to accept for leadership
abstracts of received reports etc. Krivtsov and Krozhiozhanovsky and instructs Ts. K_
Proletkult to develop a model charter for the Proletarian Club. Temporarily
The charter of the Moscow Proletkult clubs also recommends it.

The conference expresses the wish that the Red Army clubs find
established in close cooperation with all workers' organizations, thereby strengthening
the unity of the proletarian and the Red Army soldier is nourished and how the dark sides will be destroyed
barracks life.

Adopted by an overwhelming majority, with 21 abstentions and 2
vs.
18/LH 1918

Resolution on the issue of working with youth.
(Speaker E. KHERSONSKAYA.)

1) One of the essential tasks of the cultural construction of the proletariat"
is to help ensure that the spontaneous growth of youth is channeled
conscious class life-creation.

2) For these purposes, the Proletkult section for work with youth must cooperate
act; a) organizing youth unions both locally and nationally;
donative scale, 6) help the cultural self-determination of young people.
inside them.

3) The staging of studio and club work in youth unions is different
from working with adults to greater individualization of groups, more intimate ha-
character on the one hand, and on the other, the introduction of pedagogical
of well-thought-out experiments in social and everyday creativity, which
This is necessary in the interests of preparing for nation-wide construction.

4) The tasks of physical education and youth education require the creation
niya special instructors, since the bourgeois nobilitythe majority of this matter is
In most cases, they are poorly oriented in the environment of working proletarian life.

5) The youth of the Red Army must be involved in unions, a method of work
6 Red Army soldiers must be adapted to their lives so that the process”
military training proceeded in close connection with the growth of class consciousness and
without suppressing it.

6) In the interests of the international movement of the proletariat it is necessary in places...
youth unions to support the tendency to establish connections with similar
tical unions all over the world. .

7) It is desirable that the resulting All-Russian Youth Union have,
its representative in Proletkult, as well as in other centers of the labor movement
nia.

8) It is desirable that public organizations reach out to young people;
in studio work examining social forms of socialist construction
of the Czech Republic, without refusing answers to questionnaires produced by unions
youth.

9) It is necessary until the socialist state is so
will become stronger, that he will be able to free youth from working in factories, to achieve
release at least for two hours for those who work in studios and other cultural
tureo-provolicel cells.

Adopted unanimously with 1 abstention.
20/1X 1918
No. 5 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 35

Resolution on the issue of cultural and educational tasks
the languor of the Professional Unions.

(Speaker V. KOSSIOR.)

1) Trade Unions, as class workers’ organizations, are interested
those involved in the construction of proletarian culture must contribute to this
in relation to the most active supporter of the All-Russian Organization of Flying
cult, In the interests of uniting all cultural and creative activities pro-
letariat, work in the field of general development of issues of proletarian science
and art should be ideologically concentrated in Proletkult organizations
and not to be scattered among individual professional labor organizations.

2) Cultural and organizational activities of Trade Unions
should be mainly concentrated, in accordance with new trendsdachas,
stood before the professional movement—on the cultural-industrial
education of the broad working masses in the spirit of comradely discipline and collective
tivism.

3) In relation to this, the cultural and organizational departments of the Professional
national Unions, closely connected with proletkults, should organize courses,
lectures, practical classes, exhibitions, etc. d. on production issues
professional movement (on the theory and practice of tariff activities,
regulation and labor protection, on issues of labor legislation, history
development and state of industry, production management, national
lization and trusting of enterprises, etc.).

4) For this purpose, Trade Unions also need to create
in the united workers' clubs there are special departments where the proletariat during rest hours
accessible form (through tables and diagrams, professional working printing,
working cinema, etc.) was able to get acquainted with all the achievements and
the needs of the professional labor movement.

5) At the Workers' University, Trade Unions should be
a professional Department has been created in which to concentrate and develop
the whole experience of the allied movement was carried out on a general scale and where preparations were made
instructors and practitioners serving the activities of the Profes-
national Unions.

Adopted unanimously.
201X 1918 E

Resolution on the issue of cultural and educational tasks
the languor of the Cosperative Workers.

(Speaker N. VASILEVSKY.)

1) Workers' Cooperation, as one of the forms of the labor movement, must lead
be guided in their cultural and educational activities by those general principles
principles that formed the basis of the movement of the Russian proletariat after
October Revolution.

2) The Workers' Cooperation in its cultural and educational work must
move from “cultural trade” and “enlightenment” to active creation
proletarian culture.

3) To achieve this goal, the cultural and educational work of the Workers
Cooperatives should be led under the banner of Proletkult and united in-
circle of its local cells. early

4) Worker Cooperatives should provide the broadest support to Pro-
letkult, in centers and locally, both material means and work-
nicknames

5) Those huge funds that are collected in the Workers' Cooperation -
benefits from workers as consumers must be rationally used

‘ 3*
36 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

in order to create a new, proletarian culture under the leadership of the Russian-
Sky Center of Proletarian Cultural and Educational Organizations—C. K.
Proletkult.

6) Finding that the work of the “cultivators” who are now leading the Workers’ Co-op
walkie-talkie, causes obvious harm to the cultural construction of the ‘proletariat, darkening
Its goal is the creation of a new proletarian culture, All-Russian Conference
Proletarian Cultural and Educational Organizations are entrusted by the Ts.K. Pro-
letkult to develop, together with communist co-operators, measures of real-
control over the cultural and educational work of those Workers of the Cooperative
WWII, in which elements hostile to the proletariat have firmly built their nest
of saboteurs, social traitors and White Socialist Revolutionaries,

Adopted unanimously.
19/1 X 41918

Resolution on the issue of literary publishing,
(Speaker B. MANDELBAUM.))

The proletariat is called upon to create its own literature and poetry,
significantly different from what was hitherto bourgeois; nominate your
poets and fiction writers, word artists who embody the newborn
life in its new forms. He must find new ways to create;
in part this is already happening, and a number of young proletarian writers are revealing their
creativity in the field of words.

1) To achieve this goal, it is necessary to create universally special,
literary studios in which work would be carried out in two directions:

a) It would provide an acquaintance with the literary heritage of past eras, and
For this purpose, courses on the history of ancient and modern literature, Russian
and foreign studies, criticism and cultural history, and all these courses should
set forth in the coverage of the Marxist worldoponymania.

6) The working writer and working reader must become familiar with the technology
with external skill, with the skills of literary creativity - for which it is necessary
Dima theoretical courses and practical classes in metrics, rhythm and general
theory of versification, theory of drama, literary prose and criticism.

2) Theoretical and practical classes should be emphasized
in journalism, familiarity with which, with schools scattered everywhere,
diyas should be organized on a representative basis.

3) Publishing activities of editorial teams in their main
The outline should be as follows:

a) to the publication of theoretical textbooks and courses covered by © class
points of view, and technical manuals on all branches of literary creativity
qualities, ranging from poetics to journalism;

6) to the widest publication of works of proletarian writers, with
in it, however, only the best, truly valuable, should be published, ›
for the right to print is a right that everyone must win for himself; for
a worker writer is an organizer of the collective thought of the proletariat.

Addendum to the resolution.

The Conference instructs the Central Committee of the All-Russian Proletkult 1) to accept
immediate participation in the organization of the All-Russian Union of Working Writers.

2) Expresses a wish to convene, at the first opportunity, an All-Russian
Russian Congress of Working Writers, with a view to the final organization of the Union.
‚ 3) Create a Central Body uniting proletarian workers
pen. .

Adopted unanimously with 4 abstentions.
18LH. 1918
M5 PROLETARIC CULTURE. 37

Resolution on the issue of fine arts.
(Speaker A. ANDREEV.)

First All-Russian Conference of Proletarian Cultural and Enlightenment
body of the Organization adopts the following basic provisions in identifying
and creating the foundations of Proletarian’ Imaginative Art.

1) It is necessary to unite all proletarian creators and artists in
training, labor and instructor-propaganda communes.

2) Instruct. such commwe organize and organize workshops -
“studio, laboratories for educational and labor collective creativity in all
fine arts majors.

3) Clarifying in collective cooperation the foundations of the ideology of the proletarian
artistic creativity, permeate and saturate the entire life of the pro-
‘tariat through art, promoting social communism through
ties and forms of fine art.

4) Direct creative, labor collective gatherings
teachers of proletarian science and methodology in the fine arts and
educational universities should be the halls of proletarian images
creative arts, organized and constructed throughout Soviet territory.

5) Direct conductors of fine art throughout
areas of life should be served by educational and educational institutions: clubs,
‘theatres, museums, workers’ universities and factories, laboratories, art gal-
galleries, exhibitions, cinemas, excursions, etc.

6) Communes of the proletariat and their representatives in state, mui-
cial and public institutions should accept the most energetic
measures in the wide implementation of all events in this area: in decoration
cities, construction of buildings, erection of monuments, participation in folk festivals
in industries, in industrial production, in print works in the widest
on a large scale, etc., for example, paintings of the revolution, propaganda popular prints,
illustrations, posters, portraits of public figures, monuments and others
‹weapons, for which it is necessary to provide the Communes with all the materials
property and financial resources,

7) All exemplary creative works of the Communes of Polotar artists
workers constitute the property of the entire proletariat and are collected in production
corporative, educational public institutions of the state.

‚8) Summarizing the main tasks of the proletariat in the field of fine arts
arts, the first All-Russian Conference of Proletarian Cultural-Pro-
<vegetative organizations sees depiction in creative worksline
arts created on the basis of proletarian revolutionary ideology, source
joy, beauty and beauty of the life of the proletariat, as well as a powerful weapon
propaganda of class consciousness in the international proletarian revolutionary
tions. r

The conference believes that proletarian art as a whole will win the world
lights and will illuminate the path to world socialism.

Adopted unanimously with 5 abstentions.
18/1X 1918

Resolution on the question of the proletarian theater.
(Speaker V. KERZHENTSEV.)

First 'All-Russian Conference of Proletarian Cultural-Enlightenment
tive Organizations, attaching special importance to the creation of proletarian
<whose theatre, outlines the following immediate tasks of the pre-production departments of the Pro-
letculta:
38 PROLETARK CULTURE. > №5

1) The construction of the proletarian theater must begin © the creation of the Kats-
ditch of actors who came from a proletarian environment and reflect the psychology of „
the plans and aspirations of the revolutionary proletariat, i.e. from education
at Proletkult drama working studios,

2) Instructional work in studios should take place with the participation of technical
professional actors who are close to the aspirations of the working class for creative
given to the socialist theater. Working under the ideological socialist con-
control, these professional technicians will train workers in the necessary basics
book of performing arts, introduce the latest trends, pre-
then creating a wide field for free creativity for proletarian artists.

3) The repertoire of the proletarian theater had yet to be created, and this was barely possible
blows to draw the main attention of the theatrical and literary departments of Proletkul-
Comrade As a transitional measure from world literature, you can select plays
treating themes close in spirit to the sentiments of the revolutionary proletariat.

A) As complete proletarian troupes are created, the best of the su-
existing theaters should be transferred to the jurisdiction of Proletkults.

5) Until then, in the field of bourgeois theater, state power was
it is worth: a) nationalizing theaters, i.e. remove them from the hands of private enterpriseprizes and transfer them to the communes or the state, 6) keep records of all artists
ical forces and collectives in order to distribute them evenly throughout the country,
c) take strict control over the repertoire of theaters and help establish re-
pertoire that meets the requirements of the era.

Adopted unanimously with 5 abstentions.

18/1X. 1948 .

Resolution on the question of proletarian music.
(Speakers N. BRYUSOVA and B. KRASIN.) t

Music, as the purest reflection of inner spiritual life, as
the most powerful means of organizing the feeling and will of the masses, like a great force
for the re-creation of man, must be an integral part of the proletarian
culture, and therefore the tasks of the music department of Proletkults include:

1) Help the proletariat in mastering the musical heritage of humanity.

2) Promoting the identification of emerging collective and individual
of the proletariat’s creative work in the field of musical art in the form of
power to performing artists and creative artists.

3) Fight against music substitutes (restaurant music, vulgar music
to words of revolutionary content, etc.) mainly by counter-
His staging of a revived artistic folk song and the best
works of new musical creativity.

For these purposes, there should be immediate and widespread organization of
letarian music and vocal studios under the supervision of experienced leaders
teachers sent by Proletkult.

Adopted unanimously with 2 abstentions,

18/1X 1918

Charter of the All-Russian Council of Proletarian Cultural-Pro-
lighting organizations.

(All-Russian Proletkult Council.)

All-Russian Council of Proletkult, as the organizational completion of the new
form of the labor movement, is the center that unites and leads
working in the construction of the revolutionary communist proletariat,
of its proletarian culture,

To do this, he unites all proletarian cultural and educational
organizations and creates them again, forming from them District and Provincial
Proletkults.
`

M5 PROLETARIC CULTURE. 39

Noteaniye. Decisions of the All-Russian Conference and the All-Russian
Councils are mandatory for all Organizations united in Proletcult -
The Council prepares a cadre of its leaders, special instructors -
organizers and sends them to the field in order to promote correct
staging work on the construction of proletarian culture.

The All-Russian Proletkult Council consists of 15 members and 8 candidates
to them, elected by the Conference; in addition, one representative sent
bark the Moscow, Petrograd and every provincial Proletkult, All-
Russian Central Executive Committee of the Soviets, Central’
Committee of the Russian Communist Party, People's Commissariat for
Education, All-Russian Council of Trade Unions, Central
ny Trade Unions (e.g. metalworkers, textiles, railway
nicks etc. d.), Council of Workers' Cooperation, All-Russian Center of Revolutionary
Socialist Youth, Red Army and Navy.

The powers of the Council continue from the day of its election until the next Con-
conference, which is convened by the Council at least once per year.

The Council itself meets at least once every 3 months. Its quorum is determined
is divided into half the votes of all registered members,

For the practical implementation of the tasks facing Proletkult
The members elected to the Conference constitute the Executive Body (0-:
Veta, the Central Committee, which in turn selects the Presidium from
7 people,

The conference elects a chairman, 2 comrades and a secretary. For
establishing contact with the People's Commissariat for Education Conf.
Rentia elects the head of the Department of Proletarian Culture at Narodny
Commissariat for Education, as well as 2 members of the board.

Department of Proletarian Culture at the People's Commissariat for Education"
conducts its work in full contact with the Central Committee of Proletkult and gives in its work
both report to the Proletkult Council,

The All-Russian Proletkult Council constructs the following Departments: Scientific
ny, Arts, Literary and Publishing; Organizational-Instructor,
Financial and Child Education Department (the latter according to the PES

Each department is headed by a manager responsible to the C.
for leadership in the work department,

The work is carried out in accordance with the resolutions of the Conference and the Council; for success
depending on the case, the Central Committee can create various auxiliary institutions, in the form of
DIY laboratories, etc.

The editorial board of the Central Organ “Proletarian Culture”, consisting of
5 members, elected and approved at the All-Russian Conference. Under her
The entire publishing house of TsK Proletkult is under surveillance.

The funds of the Russian Council consist of accountable subsidies from the People
of the Commissariat for Education and from the income of various enterprises

institutions of the Council.

Note 1st. Ts.K. develops a plan for self-taxation of the flight
riat for the purpose of building proletarian culture, which is included in
force with the approval of the Council.

Note 2. All independent proletarian cultural-pro-
educational organizations that receive financial assistance from the state
institutions during the period of organization and development of their activities
ties, must strive to exist at their own expense.

Note 3-c. All Proletkult organizations must strive for “.
so that local workers' organizations allocate from their income local
to the new proletkult, by mutual agreement, a certain percentage.
The Audit Commission of 5 persons is elected by the Conference.

unanimously with 3 abstentions.
LH 1918
40

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 5

and

Chronicle of Proletkult.

In the provinces

The deep attention with which you listen
fundamental ideas were discussed and
treasures at our conference, vividly evidenced
honors the desire to understand these
local issues. These same questions
<is receiving a lot of attention in the provincial
no press.

In Penza, recently liberated from the whites
“Soviet organ “Hammer” in an article under
chapter "The Coming Culture", insisting on
the need for parallel cultural development
bots next to political and economic,
correctly states the following: “Only
then,when material is construction
will go hand in hand with the construction of du-
spiritually, only then will life become complete
and beautiful, for not only our daily bread
can satisfy the proletariat." From here,
about the opinion of “Working Path”, Ortan Ivanov-
ZVoznesensk, “Proletkult, - great
‘an institution for the education of young, still weak
battle, but dear for all working people
Letarian culture." And in our dime
“Days, days of struggle for the glorious red banner
our proletarian socialist re-
revolution with the international of the bourgeoisie,—not
we should forget our creative tasks
or, as “Bednota” sharply puts it, remember de-
our visa: “Fight at the front and study in
Proletkulte." The position obliges. By-
this needs to be clear more than ever
understand the essence of our work. Here's the
what is very important is to strictly divide our space
Bot, In this matter, the confusion of death is
kind. That's why it's very interesting to us
it seems the article “Proletarian culture and
"agricultural commune", premises
Naya in Petrogradskaya Pravda.—Indicating
to the danger of left-wing socialism in the sense of va-
darkening the purity of box office consciousness, author
claims that the only creator of the
letarian culture is the proletariat,
who puts into his consciousness the
a spirit that is unique to him.
- “The task is a complete change in the direction of the spiritual
life, otherwise collapse threatens.” In the very
method of work and organization is created
‘our proletarian culture. Hence the danger
ness of the village, “for as long as we
Let us not look at the earth as if it were a fa-
‘brik, with its inherent methods of work,
"the factory where our
“self-awareness of the rulers of the planet—until then
our land will threaten us with slavery.”
From here the commune must become a land commune
factory, organization and method of work ‘at
which should be factory-made. This one -
then there is danger and everyone must firmly remember
‘comrades calling for unity or
complete merger of the proletariat and the bourgeoisie
‘chik-peasant, and urban tradesman in
creative work.

‚How to work on forgingsoh this new one
weapons of our class struggle? Best

the path is circle work, for which the prizes are.

t, S. Sh. in “Vyazemskiye Izvestia”, dis-

va"

talking about organizing a circle for
teaching political economy in his club.
Pointing to the passivity of the masses, which
sluggishly accepted the fact that the old system had rotted,
and didn’t think about the question, is it always
this old system was rotten and why is it
got tired, the author says: “Out of habit and in
at first it seemed that this method (me-
tod active. cooperation of all members)
is difficult for members of the circle, but already
the last evening of the fgogo club classes showed
how beneficial it acts in the example
nurturing him. Immediately after some confusion
I felt like I was getting excited
creative activity of each participant
mug." This is the only way in our opinion
and it is possible to transition from purely educational
from work to creative work. We are constantly
but we emphasize the need for studio
work.

Studio work is most easily conceived in
field of art, and that's probably why we
and we see the enormous growth of studios both in price
fuck, and in the provinces. Here is a picture of the smo-
Lena studio: “Here are those who study and
who is improving ›—all together. can be heard
question: “Here’s how I can draw this cube
more polite? Show me." And the artist explained
He understands, shows, “I came to Sazov to study. —
Did you draw? - Where was there to draw,,.Only
I mean, in childhood... I was there, that means...
daddy tar, a whole subsoil, and I washed it out -
hall for drawing instead of paints, Well, for-
they gave me... Comrade, where should I start:
© stuffed or plaster?”›—Whichever you want, the choice is yours
us free, with whatever you can. Here you go
folder, coal, paper. You with this plaster cast
want to start pyramids? Well, well, and pre-
obliquely." As you can see, the operating principle
is complete freedom. (unconstrained frame-
kami school) artistic creativity.

The Smolensk Proletkult decided by con-
courses to serve and the needs of their patients
Tara Theater The proletarian theater is very
worries his comrades. Kaluga residents are calling for
Zarishchey Hallrevive the foundations of the theater, And Tambov-
the conference has a lot of space in its work
devoted to the theater. T. Boytsov in his report
“On bourgeois Western and Japanese theater”
focused on the capitalist character
theatrical enterprises, which is disastrous from-
is reflected in the repertoire. Question about the benchmark
toare is very important, Comrade Gavrilov said,
“Given the terrible desire of various
spectacles on the part of the masses", To the disrepair
repertoire was indicated by Comrade Saprin, Plan of Pre-
worthwhile work of the emerging 'Tambov
proletkult in the field of creating proletarian
of the theater was drawn by Comrade Vasilyeva, Svo-
questions about the repertoire were also encountered in Smo-
Lensk. At a party about "Workers' Tasks in
cultural construction" was discussed by "Sav-
Andreeva and was completely reasonable
unanimously excluded from the working repertoire
toire, as a play is brightly anarchic and deep
Boko is pessimistic. This fact ra-
blows because there is a general craze

No. 5

St. Andrew's rhetoric scared us. Smolen-
proletarian theater decided to commemorate
celebrate the 90th anniversary of the birth of Tol-
just a special performance. From Ostro-
Gozska announce the opening of the choir and
instrumental studios, but complain about
non-proletarian character of the studio members.
A studio of elegant words has been created in Nologriv,
where, in addition to classes, discussions are held
these; This is how the discussion on the topic was arranged
“Where should I go?” (0 to the isis of the Russian intellectual
gencii). Smolensk proletkulg on its
looks at the studio as a kind of literature
tour club and thinks through a joint community
judgment transition and collective creativity
honor. It should be noted here that the attempt
Moscow Proletcult to create a school
proletarian journalists. We all feel
We are aware of the shortage of our newspapers, and it is necessary
take all measures to ensure that workers
Zetas were conducted in the same way as Pravda 1912—
1914, when it was served almost exclusively
especially by the workers themselves. And it’s no secret—
complete isolation of our newspapers and magazines
fishing from life in areas and places.

Most of the messages we see ©
club life. After the summer lull
their lifebegins to beat in full swing.
The comrades on the ground have a clear consciousness that
that the club is our first cultural cell
tour construction, Here are the Kostroma re-
artisans call on their comrades to found
your club: “Without food, we die, like
flies, It is necessary that the path ‘open to us’
overgrown with weeds. We are like pitiful worms;
crawled into their corners, not noticing
the lives of others. Club, this is the guiding star
ours." The appeal ends with the request:
“We suggest after reading... think about
how important it is in the present. time knowledge
for the workers." Or in N. Shkif Penza
lips the club's organizers consider it their task to
chami “to instill in their members mental discipline,
will and character." And Comrade And, Efimenko, reported
in the “Izvestia of the Kamyshin Council”. about
opening of the Red Army club, says:
“There they will teach the proletariat to reap without pressure
strength, without capitalists and exploiters,”
Bryansk comrades understand their task
like this: “Uniting workers for collective
creative creative work, and moreover,
everyone must participate in this work—construction
development of new forms of life. Club - school
development of socialist consciousness." Stazia
such lofty tasks are naturally tormenting
but club members feel the mistakes of club life
neither. They report from Kostroma that upon opening
One club organized a lottery. From
Lezhnev Teikovsky U. write; what for now
the club gives the impression of a station
11th grade hall with its own buffet and tea room -
nay, why is there a demand for Ru-
to the leaders: “More freshness and less
higher than the old bourgeois, capitalist
whom, Pobolynya restraint, order’ and
bots about the spiritual life of workers." After before-
treasure about the recent Moscow conference
vol. Bolsheviks in Voronezh decided to fundamentally
create a club-commune, which will make a
sterskoy of his ideology of culture.

But often the life of the Club depends entirely on
the presence of a skilled organizer. It's not a secret

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

for-`

41

that we have too few of them, especially
organically connected with the working masses"
Therefore, the St. Petersburg spanKulg experience
on the right path of studio instruction
celebrations The club department sets its task
whose: “association of practical workers
and the lack of knowledge will be filled in practice
ke". Hence the ardent appeal: “Comrades, do not
be embarrassed by the fact that you are inexperienced - experience
purchased. Come to us and make appointments -
come on, and with that we will make a beginning
organizing a circle of instructors in external
education". A similar organization
nization has already been created by the Kostroma residents. Correct
but believing that we are learning and developing,
to pass on your knowledge and experience”
then another, it was decided from all members
city workers' club to create an organiza-
congestion for counties. For this purpose, arrange
interviews are conducted, and local instructions
tions are a kind of reference books.
Conversations are conducted on the following issues:
1. Reports on forms of cultural and educational
body work, 2. Follow-up conversations about
reports heard. 3. Shared reading
materials and articles, 4. Joint coverage
own work for the past week.

This same first socialist worker
The club in Kostroma organized an extremely interesting
resin exhibition on club business. Mate-
real were: postcards of the club and its life,
various groups; posters © club
mottos; “From each according to his ability,
home according to need"; "In amateur performances
members are the key to success"; questionnaire diagrams,
which give a clear idea of the co-
membership, attendance of various clubs--
new undertakings, etc. They were exhibited
lecture posters with detailed notes -
we also have posters on topical issues..
The life of the library was presented and
flow next to the tables and “your quiet read--
her,” Other comrades should also borrow
to show the people of Kostroma their undertaking—to exhibit--
appearance on billboards of newspapers and magazines
clippings. We also exhibited our own
publications: “Book about the exhibition”, Ibsen’s play”
(not specified which one), brochure about half-year
anniversary, brochures “How to organize a club
and about the objectives of the club" and the Nos. of its own journal
nala. About the literary beginnings of the fire
michi we will talk 0s0bo, but shere we are
It should be noted that only in this way,
how the comrades from Kostroma went, we
Let's not build our proletarian culture
on shifting sand, but on a granite base.

Clubs will also be organizers of cravings for
mastery of knowledge. And this craving is great: here
what letter did the Astrakhan ‘gu’ receive =
Berne Commissioner for Education: “K
I address you as the father of enlightenment
‘with a sincere request to open at mid-
educational institutions for adults, serving
workers in various institutions; those without
opportunity to devote a day to education,
black classes in high school from four
hours. So don’t let good sleep fall asleep
opinions and do not put obstacles in the form
evening work." This cry was heard
and in Astrakhan alone seven were opened.
folk gymnasiums,

The culmination of such work should be’
”

youth university, about which in
“Current No. there is a special article t. A.A.
Bogdanov. But this is where complete understanding is needed.
attention to the question, why do we need, besides
‚people's and state universities,
<how class proletarian university.
And this is not always understood correctly. If
in Naluga they say that “the people’s university
tet is dead, long live the proletarian unity
zersitet like Moscow”, if Tambov-
<whose proletkult's first task was
organizes his socialist
courses, if in N. Pomov, Nizhny Novgorod
lips., also creating its own proletarian
“university,” then sometimes it turns out not-
‘the right steps. In Voronezh at the club-commune
<only an information desk is created, “and most
teaching and development of scientific
subjects and especially methods of scientific muscle-
activities are planned to be organized in local
higher educational institutions." We believe
that this is the wrong step, since it is possible
use individual forces, but

42 d PROLETARIAN CULTURE;

by no means the entire organization, permeated
owing to a certain class spirit. Nolo-
Grivsky proletkult creates first. institute
here out-of-school children, hoping to turn around
in the future a network of national universities”Swedish type.

Fragmentary information reaches us about
emerging local proletcults. B
Novgorod is preparing for a provincial con-
ferences, but in the meantime preparatory work is underway
bota - a whole series of conversations and lectures was arranged,
clarifying the tasks and meaning of our creative
good work. The main participant is
T. Ars. Avraamov. Very intensely. prizes-
goes to the organization of proletkult red
Ivanovo-Voznesensk. But still material
we have too little, why more and more
once again we persistently call on our comrades from the field
share your work with us, no matter what
one of our undertakings did not pass by
our collective consciousness and now
became common, socialized and made
would be an instrument of our common production.

St, Krivtsov.

Bibliography.

"Gorn". Book one. Publication of the Moscow-
20 “And roller cult.” 1918, c. Sp. 60 k.

Just one more organ standing at our point
vision. We welcome him and wish him the best
any success and distribution, Zhur-
cash has its own special personality, it was conceived int.
resno "Proletarskaya Kultura" - magazine on
mostly theoretical, I remind you -
tions according to their type German fortnight-
nickname of N. Kautsky “New Time”; he under-
stages in its difficulty to the broad masses
proletariat, it is useful and necessary for the
"drivers at work, Petrograd" Coming
Scheya" is a magazine primarily of literary
artistic; it contains theories
popular articles on individual
issues of proletarian culture, but they
‹abyss; constant everyday work
metropolitan "Proletkult" completely
is not reflected in the journal.

Moscow "Gorn" in addition to literary
‘The art department has a publishing department
cystic, in which in a form accessible
to the boorish broad masses of the working class,
<issues will be systematically covered
proletarian culture. The most valuable thing in
magazine - this is what each department of the span -
cult on the pages allocated to him gives
a report on all your work, plans, successes
and failures. This will help solder the work and
workers, will help to quickly become firmly established
solid groundand will give quite a few useful
instructions from the province, which will save a lot
unnecessary labor, which is especially important in our time
time when for every efficient person
a wide variety of obligations have been invested
preoccupations.

The magazine contains illustrations of both
fabog of neo-total artists, with one or

other aspects of interest to the proletariat, so
and from the works of studio students of the Department of Fine Arts
creative arts,

The first book “The Horn” was compiled with interest,
But... this “but” is almost always found in
life, - from the magazine there are also significant non-
improvements both in terms of content and
outside,

The editorial could have been significantly
brighter and more defined, especially after All-
Russian Conference, at which many
the questions are resolved quite clearly. In no way
In this case, it is impossible to separate isychology from culture.
tours. It’s not our language when they say “creative”
to wrest from oblivion with the help of a creative imagination
thoughts, images, feelings to existence"; exactly
It is also impossible to select images from. region
science and feelings, This is completely foreign to us
waiting point of view.

The department “Among
magazines." Such a responsible department
entrust to persons who are little experienced in Marxist
stable methodology, and even more so in matters
proletarian culture, very dangerous,

S. Spassky, reviewing the journal “Coming”
", rather cheekily, with a tone that does not allow
those who have doubts, mints out: “New
original forms, nor significantly new co-
the holding (in the magazine) is not yet visible. By
the content is still the same old poetry “gra-
civil feeling and social protest,
more generally democratic than class-
owl-proletarian, poetry of the revolution in
general and not our proletarian revolution.”

It is unforgivable for the editors to miss

‘similar lines in which it is found

the author's complete helplessness in theory
tic issues.
*

No. e

There's a lot of pure stuff in "The One to Come"
proletarian poetry, and in due time we
“we noted this on the pages of our magazine,

With each line of the review, the author became
grows more and more boldly and in the end declares: “Don’t
the great misfortune is that at first “Gr.eating"
not so easy to distinguish from yesterday.”

The reviewer obviously doesn’t know not only.
“The future”, but also did not understand yesterday,”

No less quick to deal with other reprisals
censor T. Radvansky, who placed behind the label
about the Saratov magazine "Crucible". He's right
that the magazine is boring and no one needs it, but
he is completely wrong and definitely rude,
when it brands this magazine as vulgar.
The ECournal is run by people who are not talented, and
“His workers did not show themselves in any way -
be valuable; their good intentions are not yours
poured into the artistic-proletarian form
mu; here you need to help them get on the kogi, and
don’t shut up, because the proletariat is just yet
takes on this job

A. Bely’s articles also suffer from
“terrorist shortcomings. Author, raising
the question of images in poetry is decidedly not
realizes that the old arsenal of images has passed
-tariat will put it in the archives, like images 4ifi-
character, not corresponding to modern
low level of knowledge. Proletarian Li-
literature must create new images; what
praises. And, White, it’s not always suitable for us,
He likes the image: “Golden, fiery
snakes stung houses.” This image is not correct.
To sting means to penetrate deep into the body,
pre-destroying its upper layers
shelters; the combustion process proceeds differently: fire
does not “sting”, but “licks”, “crawls”. Give it up
book into the stove, and you will see how it will turn out
turn page after page; neither*
something reminiscent of the process of stinging a snake,
you won't see. Verhaeren in his “Resurrection”
NI", describing the fire, compares the fire
with torches: “Their torches lick their tongues-
com".

A. Bely doesn’t like the image: “Orcs are flying.”
“trov peals” In his opinion, it’s fake
sounding images: the peals of orchestras fall,
and the swallows are flying. Wrong. If the item
falls, then he is in his movement from the point
the fall goes to the center of the earth; the sound is the same
physics teaches, spreads from its
starting point in all directions, including
and from the center of the earth, therefore, he can-
may fly; We can agree that the word
flying here is not suitable, but the idea of the image
deeply true and scientific,

With the caution of lawyer A. Bely,
speaks of well-worn words, like sidewalk
plates that crush the proletarian creativity
‘quality. For someone, slogans and terms
revolutions are hackneyed, for us they are sacred,
for them we languished in hard labor, for them we
we are shedding blood now. They are dear to us, close
and evoke in us a lot of moods and feelings,
The juniors will organize us. And’ it doesn’t matter if it’s
somewhat to the detriment of imagery.

In March 1855, in Sovpemennik, according to
based on A. Maykov’s poem “Shepherd”
N. G. Chernyshevsky wrote: “The poet, having changed
‘direction according to the requirements of modern
‘minorities, acted wonderfully and nobly—
even in this case, if this change

PROLVTARIAN CULTURE.

43

served to the detriment of his talent." This look
luminary of criticism of the 60s, we take goals -
com, even without any reservations, in defense
our slogans in poetry.

The review about the “Plant” smacks of self-praise
firewing"—a collection published by the Moscow
Proletkult. Collection under no circumstances
does not stand above Petrograd publications; in
there are poems in it that could be
placed only by oversight, and between
the “Burn”, without distinguishing “The Coming” from
“yesterday”, about his publications narcissistic
but writes: “Among those released in the last
during the collections of proletarian poets “Factory
fire-winged" is perhaps the best example,
perhaps the first indication (?) that the new
a streak of life, a new trend in poetry leads
themselves extraordinary artists." Reviewer
along the way he even tries to pinch Comrade Ki-
Rillova, making fun of his "Tomorrow".

Let me remind you of literary
morals that were recognized long ago
a long time ago, back in Sovremennik. Sometimes in. 1856
year, poems by N, Nekrasov,
N. G. Chervyshevsky wrote: “Readers who
Of course, they won’t expect “Modern+”
Nick" presented a detailed judgment about the style
the wishes of one of his editors.
We can only list the plays here,
included in the now published book."
It doesn’t hurt for the Bugle to remember this instruction.
N. G. Chernyshevsky,

In the article; “On the question of the method of trainingo
history literature; y" the author gets to the point
not entirely correct: he puts forward two
provisions: 1) help develop critical
approach to any literary work
deniya, 2) give a minimum of historical and literary
information needed for a beginner
literary education for adult workers
what. The most important main goal is missing
studio: to teach the worker to understand and study
read literature in order to develop their
literary talents. The studio is not a school,
which provides a well-known stock of literary
knowledge, but a laboratory, and this forces co-
set goals and measures accordingly
Methods of teaching outlined by the author
problems can be solved perfectly in
Pgoletarian University, in addition to the studio.

The magazine contains articles: comrade. F. Kali-
Nina “The Path. proletarian culture and culture
bourgeois tightness", Comrade M. Torova, "Fundamentals
poetic technique of V. Bryusov.” That and
other articles adorn the magazine, although To-
It should be noted that some women were carrying
The importance of the article: from one side to the reader
basic explanations are given in 0 steps,
metik, rhyme, and on the other hand, from the ver-
the verse is analyzed with the greatest subtleties
Brussels, Who still doesn't understand the basics
st’khosti, that does not understand >all subtly -
sty, and whoever understands them does not need elements.
container information.

Placed resolutions of the First All-Russian-
skoy Conference of Proletkults.

As for the appearance of the publication,
I have to admit that proofreading is worth
very low, so at times it’s not very good
searching for meaning. For example, instead of “inter-
pretator" stands for "interizetator", instead of "sa-
moderative activity" - "self-duration", incl.
’

44,

one hundred “constructs”—“states”; met
there are interesting agreements of the kind that follow
students: the charter has been adopted, the course is being taught and
is being conducted—comrade Brender and Schwartz; as if
the surnames Schwartz and Brender are not declined.
Correction defects are visible even on
cover, although there are only five words, and
volume of large numbers. Article endings
poorly chosen; they represent from
yourself imitating carvings on the village
hut, this "Bugle” doesn’t seem to suit him. Judging
on the exhibition during the Conference, and the Department
fine arts gave 'not
the best of the studio students' work.

When you unscrew the cover, thanks
the absence of a title page, it turns out
It looks like several pages have been torn out.

Of course, comrades have reasons
for. excuses - haste, confusion
typographical business, etc., but all this is not both
criticism wields.

There are still shortcomings, but let's hope
that in subsequent issues they all disappeared-
chickpeas Let us once again wish the magazine
success. V. Polyansky,

In storm and flame. Collections “Creator-P Role-
tarsho. Publication of the Yaroslavl Union of Workers
printing business. 1918, 66 pp., price 8 rubles. 60 k.
. The collection that we just painfully
they read it with boredom, an adornment of the proletarian
Russian poetry cannot serve,

The first thing “Creator-Proletarian”, which
paradise, as it were, predetermines the direction and
the contents of the collection are of little content and
written in a pompous style with little experience -
a great agitator who compensates for the lack
content, imagery and musicality of the re-
broadcasting, shouting words
by you. This drawback, although not to such an extent
strong dose, also characteristic of other things
V. Noroleva:

The collection is extremely poorly maintained. It's difficult
grasp even the most general idea, unite
nive of authors. Judging by the title above the collection
nickname, agents must show us how to
the new master of ‘life—the proletarian—creates new
I want a bright life.

It turns out that one of the authors is N. Nustov

“I would like to fall into a deep, undisturbed sleep,”
good sleep,
So that life lies dormant in his chest.”

He, obediently bowed before the blows
fate, writes:
“I have nothing more to wish for...
I don’t care whether I die or escape.”..

These lines, as the reader himself sees, we
we cannot in any way ‘attribute to the revolutionary
to the proletariat. Such things would be permissible
I would like to write to the intellectuals of the 80s, for
whose life was a mysterious sphinx, and
a pygmy man in front of him.

“This is life, this sphinx. Her law—
moment,

And there is no such sage among people,

Who could tell the crowd where to go?e move your wife,

Who could figure out the features of her face?

This is what the poet of the eighties wrote, and
these notes don’t sound in Kustov’s poems?

PVOLTAR CULTURE.

the most ^

No. 5

The same sentiments are repeated among
The Queen in his "Evening".

"There are no hopes, no desires

In my silent heart...

The gloomy raven narks

A wild, strange tale."
What does the proletarian creator have to do with it? Decide
It’s completely unclear.

In their defense, the authors will say that these
things were written by them before the revolution; then for
Why should they be placed in a collection that
entitled "In Storm and Fire"? _

They are not distinguished by the depth and richness of their
holdings and things of the last year. Everywhere
general phrases: the revolution will win, the bourgeoisie
one cannot escape from revenge, etc.

The poems do not differ in either imagery or
musicality, but sometimes it shows
illiteracy, although the authors use
Latin and Italian phrases,

Here are some examples:

1) “This is an important “brother writer”, author

dirty novels
Chanting with the taste of a magnificent woman

`. body;
Spread out before the crowd, the depths of their
pockets
He will fill famous people with credit cards

two. hour" ("Toads"),
2) “They’re slurping”
Over the pile of wealth, meat"
(“Let it be”)
z “Revolution, revolution” - they shout;
Curses, praises, prophecies...
All you need is an enemy
The old can be completely cured."
(“Glory to him”).

We are very squirming for being unpleasant for
the authors are harsh, but there is no poetry here
grana. \

Where musicality is visible, everyone
will immediately feel imitation.

"Blessed rain
Vaporized the earth,
Pleasant moisture
I sprinkled the grass.”

This is what I, S. Nikitin wrote, for example:

"Quietly the night falls
On the tops of the mountains,
And the moon looks

In the mirrors of lakes."

Another example: .
“It will proudly hover over Russia
Communards red flag;

It sounds loudly and imperiously—
Be the lord of the farm laborer."

This is no longer just imitation, but simply
simply an adaptation of a famous poem
renia of A. S. Pushkin:

“They hover briskly over the Neva
Flags of motley ships;
Sounds are heard from boats
Songs of friendly rowers."
We can’t say anything about prose either.
or gratifying; no plot, noneither
poetry, no imagery, no colorfulness...

.
`body words

mz

The authors, as far as one can judge from the collection,
Niku, all communists; but they forgot to teach
literature of the seventies
Dov that everyone must be conscious
a citizen, but 'a poet... may not' be,

V, Pius.

A.E. Galkiya. Wedding vestments. Poetry.
Publication of Literary and Artistic Co-
Weapons "Polygon". Saratov, 19182.,
48 pages, price 1 rub. 60 k.,

The author, as stated in the preface, in his
time went for the plow, Perhaps he left
now in a ‘many-faced, rebellious city, but
soul: his not’ merged with him, with his ebullient
life; maybe the author is tearing up the last ones
threads that connect him with the village
way of life; This is not known to us, Neso-
One thing is certain: Galkin’s mood is tight,
organically intertwined with nature. He's her
loves, he understands, he feels her and
dissolves it in it. Without nature the soul of the author
will become empty, and nothing will capture it,
he made his living by walking behind the plow. Without rustic
Galkin cannot write about experience.

The author looks at nature and its beauty
through the prism of a shining dawn, through tenderness
spring. The poet was born “in the solar schema”,
he “deepened into the secrets of the bot to sing spring
and the ringing of life.” “In spring even death is red,
like the sun” he exclaims, Gold, sun
Vespa...—elephant-types are found in almost all
poems, the Author, is cheerful because of his
worthy unity with nature’ infects
reader. Thoughts of doubt rarely and not for long
take over his heart; wizard may

“The song rang out through the valleys, through the forests
And scattered forget-me-nots across the meadows...
In the morning he played scarlet on the pipe...
. Over hearts, over flowers, over souls,
He wafted an unearthly spell over this world.”

It is these unearthly spells that hide from
the author's authentic life, with its fatal
battles, with terrible fights with the enemy,
life with death and resurrection,

The poet is fully aware of his moods,

“I am the song of sparkling nature...
Grow and expand in the chest
Patterns of joyful desires, -

All my paths are from the sun

Living unfading daring"

the author says,

Jackdawhe is not our poet, not a proletarian; but
if he were imbued with the multifaceted, multi-
colorful, multi-stringed life of the city and
factories, he could contribute to the poetry of labor
his own particular stream and he himself would not be
"like a monk in a hut"

Galkin's poetry is not rich in themes; pstre-
there are many repetitions, but there are separate
things that are designed and organized
quite satisfactory. The images are not new
and yet the descriptions are vivid,

‘The author also has his own musicality of verse,
although simple, he writes mainly
slavu pure trochee or iambic, Polystic
He is less successful in verse.

There are several unsuccessful ones in the collection
poems: empty in content and
little figurative and musical,

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

45

Galkin is a novice poet, in his poems
the influence of other poets is felt; but there is
and yours; independence. this one is timid, but she
may turn around, and then, presumably,
the author ‘will get rid of. many. mistakes and failures
of the techniques he uses,
zhaya to their teachers. A. 0.

R. Orlova. "From a kindergarten diary."
Ed. M.S.R. D. 1918 Price Tr.

Small book of small format
in 63 pages, contains a detailed record of the work
teacher in a proletarian kindergarten (Pe-
terb. Galernaya Gavan) in the winter season of 1914 -
1915:

The book aims to “replenish the under-
a stock of popular visual literature
tours dedicated to children's practice. gardens",
and is intended mainly for
workers.

According to the author, they were excluded from the diary
theoretical conclusions, as well as" "pictures"
poverty, physical exhaustion, wonderful
known to all workers and female workers.
The diary thus provides a living document
ment characterizing the life of a little girl
educational cell, - cells where adults
In general, children and children merge into one
friendly team. In this sense, a diary
showing the life of kindergarten day after day
during the day, is the best means of
collective education, propaganda
all the more valuable since there are a number of opponents
lective education is still enough
like in a semi-literate ma camptrey, and
in the camp of the enlightened © intelligent
families, the diary talks about how, bla-
thanks to the careful selection of activities and
thought out in a pedagogical sense about
installation, children are even very retarded
appear to be conscientious (according to their age,
of course) members of the ‘little garden society,
as those who did not know how to speak or move -
through activities they acquire the ability to manage
act with your organs. Joyful atmosphere
gives space for collaboration and play
rich natural data; are brought up
subtle but true cultural habits;
social skills are developed. "Passionate
Children who are dedicated to work and deeply involved in it
always calm and reasonable, Disciplined
The plate thus lies in the very organ-
ization of classes." And how cruelly it suppresses
the embryos of the social instincts of modern
What a disorganized family! Individual
the struggle for existence vulgarizes,
dehumanizes family relationships. — Children
become a burden, “get underfoot”
adults, and this—as in relatively prosperous
both ordinary and proletarian families, Family
crumbles due to historical necessity
demise, as educational and economic
cell. It is being replaced by society
fully armed with organizational means.
Preschool children should become
subject in the very near future
concerns of the whole society, and not individual
ny parental forces.

In vain does the diary author avoid. theoretical
theoretical conclusions, to the proletarian reader
theoretical thought may be alien,

46 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

even more reinforced by a number of living
observation of reality,

One of the elements of class psychology
the proletariat is a sensitive attitude towards
any collective creativity. What
if not a form of collective creativity,
educational cell, built on the principle
principles of socialist development of personality?
Love for people, attentive attitude
connection to its individual properties, then
what underlies pedagogy is also clear
and close to the proletarian. He sees in a person
not an appendage to the machine, notslave to property:
a person for him is a project for creating a community
human values, and all conclusions regarding
committed to a culture of personalities in the team,
cannot but be close and understandable to him. And
if the diary author had given a little more
theoretical coverage of this side of the matter,
the reader would only benefit.

But even in this form the diary forces
come to purely theoretical conclusions,
Firstly, public education of PBD
guidance from those who love and know the nursery
the nature of teachers should replace the missing
the effect of upbringing in a family; work and play,
age-appropriate and organized
with a skillful hand is the best means of development
both social and individual
consciousness. The sad idleness that reigns in
family life of preschool children
and the noisy fun of the street is the same

what is the author’s experience, what is indicated -
he himself, too, was deprived of great opportunities
ness in the sense of a deeper and more lasting
social justification.

The diary was written during the era of tsarism. For-
communication with parents is difficult, tied
hands in carrying out socialist methods
Dov. works, 4Intimate - psychological
.vadaniya grew due to the tasks of social
" `Therefore, the analysis of the guys’ psyche is
more individualistic than
This could have been the case under other conditions.

The great advantage of the diary is its rights.”
wonder. One feels that the author wants to be
objective and always controls his
subjective experiences. Often diaries
this type suffers from one-sidedness,
thanks to % that life experience pre-
breaks through iris strongly
expressed personal emotions, Great power of love
And faith in a person did not interfere with Orlova
be completely objective in the image
the lives of the children close to her.

Maybe shouldn't have been excluded from
diary and pictures of cultural backwardness
working environment. Much that passes through
marked in life, from the pages of a book for now"
It would appear brighter and more convex. What
seems to the author below the level of ordinary standards
concerns about the culture of children's life, then it is painful
most parents and imagines her quite well
normal,

Bson-in-law at least such a trifle as night
visits by children with their parents to
nematographa or just evening walk
with lots to visit. You never know what else
unhygienic everyday habits
rises to life, child adult, often
having every opportunity to avoid them,

survive-'

No. 5

The author confronts these habits, and
in vain he is careful not to emphasize in the day-
none of them before The reader may be waiting
from the diary of practical instructions in this
sense.

In any case, Orlova’s “diary”—
valuable work, and in the working library it
space must be allocated. We'll wait
material that illuminates LIVING to educate -
teams in the new conditions of re-
revolutionary creativity, Elements of the new
consciousness, a new culture, undoubtedly
will be revealed in such material, and to the researcher,
theorists and practitioners will have something to work on -
botat, E, Khersonskaya.

"The Crucible". Artistic and literary

socially pithy ekurnal. Edition
“And Savona 0g0 about the Council ate.” Nos. 1, 2 and 3.
Room price 2 rubles.

The magazine set the editors a task:
“reveal, deepen, expand artistic
natural and creative instincts in the most
thicker than the people"

A great and noble task, but it is necessary
to say frankly that neither the publisher nor the re-
the drafting board did not allow and, according to
Most likely, they will not solve their problem.

The composition of the staff is not only ‹bestsie-
ten - he is extremely vague in his
ideological direction. According to the motto of the magazine -
la: “to enhance artistic and creative
Chinese instincts in the very midst of the people,” and not
working class, one might think that the magazine
wears the appearance of an SR. Saratov Governorate
niya has been known from time immemorial by the Es-ori, but if you look closely
carefully read the material, it turns out that
that they get along well in the magazine, without
interference with each other, Markeist, Socialist-Revolutionary and Liberal
ral. Strange cohabitation - from Toto, obviously
but, and the fruit is such an ugly looking one.

There are quite a lot of poems in "Tornil", This,
of course, good, the reader will recognize in them,
that one of the magazine’s employees “dreams
about himself in amiable moments,” and his eyes
kisses "sound"he has solemn crimson mo-
laziness." This is, of course, bad and even in many ways
in many senses,

The author, as a gift to friends, “forges nolokol-
bells made from scraps of metal,” but these bells
The chimes are silent, and in vain, but the author is yelling
cheer yourself up

“To the cheerful sounds, what a boy I am
I’ll frolic, dance, sing,”

the author dreams, but you have to think, and not without. os-
the promise that the dream will remain a dream, although
perhaps quite sweet for the sa-
my author.

Another author, obviously in full consciousness,
realizing his powerlessness, prays that the “violent
neter revived his aching heart,” and “then
he will calmly say goodbye to the earth, leaving
grave vaults,” Why these memorial services?
lamentations? Is history at the moment when
the vast army of the proletariat is at work,
class collective, ‘interested’ in how bu-
children die "sick heart" Saratov
citizen?

Unlike the “heart patient” there is in
magazine people with a strong, decisive character
character and even overly self-confident;

> known: “bad. that soldier

M 5

which is not on-
wants to be. general,” they used to say in the pre-
Vetsky Russia. The author writes:

“I’ll sing and re-sing
An old song, but in a new way,
So that the poor slave becomes instantly happy.”

The author praises his song as “easy
winged, from rubies-words, from diamond-
rhymes,” and yet we dare to assert
that with a light-winged song instantly happy
you will do me; and besides, songs
‘Aratov’s poets are not so “easy-going”
l”, as the magazine’s managers believe,

Connecting the magazine's poets is listed as Levantov-
skiy. He was undoubtedly brought up on the cult
coitically thinking personality, but this is not
no matter how much it stops him from recommending himself,
how... but it’s better to listen to the poet himself:

“I am the highest shadow,
Ya—day in day,
I am the world of commands.
`Everything is burning with a bright flame
Around me: I am a world of worlds,
My “I” commands me.”

We would really like to express
difference in the author’s self-characteristics, but if
his “I” commands him, then there is nothing
You can do it. Let the author enjoy himself, pro-
The letharians, anyway, won’t believe him.

"Shining Princess" Molotohowl was waiting for that
the prince will come in the spring on a white horse,
and he stands “in his light gray jacket.”
The princess gets angry and decides to wait for another
until next spring. Amazing endurance
and patience. Now, if only this one would be tolerated -
news and excerpts from the authors themselves...

From fiction it should be noted:
a tormenting tale from the ‘experienced’
native. These are simple-minded, without any pre-
claims on fiction, re-
memories of horrors and bullying in
royal prisons. You read, and involuntarily
the heart lives and anger boils, although these horrors
and the torture has already passed into eternity, and there is no strength
bring back the past. .

There are journalistic articles in the magazine
character on issues of politics, art
and public education,

Here is article 3: “One of the next
executioner", Unknown author, article not under"
Iisana - speaks about the relationship of science
and religion; but he does not know this question. He
does not understand that both science and religion
the essence of organizing the collective experience of the idea-
ology, religion compared to science more
an earlier, more primitive form of ideological
gy, which arose at the dawn of man
life, when there is no need to talk about science
it was difficult

The author also makes another mistake:
that is to say: pure rationalism
706 isto and, Although in
article and I have direct instructions, but you need to
to assume that the author is his own pure, nationalism
identifies with socialism. Until now
even bourgeois publicists depicted
expressed itself somewhat differently, However, Sara-
to the Soviet “creators of the future” the old is not
in any case not a decree.

no doubt

"Ka-

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

F. Without-'

gender-‘

47

Saratov also has its own philosophers. In the journal
there is a very interesting article: “What
humanity and culture" reflection of co-
cialista. In order not to bore readers, we
let us write down just a few of the most
“valuable” thoughts so that the reader can understand
take on the issue. It turns out: 1) “People
Thermanii is historically more capable of pro-
be more interested in the ideas of socialism than anyone else
other"; 2) “Russia has made a leap.” She
“went into herself and there, at the bottom’ npeople's soul,
began to draw on natural human
ideas for implementing the cherished (socialist)
ical) tasks. She woke up - and found herself
already after that at the highest in the world
paths." It turns out that in order to establish social
Russianism had no need to continue
and advancement on the cultural path. She
“Having struck the hearts, she took a leap and found
As a result, it develops at the highest
in the world above."

We won't climb this high
height”, and we recommend readers 3-
stay away from this, so that they, like you,
author, your thoughts are not confused from fear
before an unattainable height.

7The magazine was published on good paper, with pain
thoroughness, but illustrations and general
spoon of iloha.

I would like to believe that the Saratov comrades
from the Council will eventually pay attention -
on their organ and put the matter into action
exactly to the appropriate height. V, G-Ъ

‘

"The Coming Nuztura*. Kurnal of the Proletariat"
skogo creativity. "No. 1. and 1918 Edition"
tion of the Governorate of the Roletkult,
Ts. Er. ,

Another of our magazines, ours in its own way
spirit, direction, consistency, and in this
respect, very favorably different
from other magazines that are growing faster,
how the very idea of proletarian culture is realized
tours.

In addition to poems and stories in the issue,
Several interesting articles have been posted. We
We list them so that the reader can
imagine how deep the idea of the proletarian
Tambov commodities feel the culture
riches, and with what enthusiasm they work
to create this culture. '

“The immediate tasks of the proletariat”—article
working Powder Man, Thoughtfully, consciously
taking full responsibility for the experience
moment, the author realizes with pain in his heart,
that the proletariat is not yet quite ready to weed
I drink the great history laid upon him
tasks." “The proletariat is often forced
assign comrades to responsible work
cabbage soup, not yet experienced enough.” "Sometimes
have to watch how. our young
fellow communists under the influence of the surrounding
reaping them of various kinds so-called
"specialists" ... "fall under the influence
bourgeois ideologistand, and this phenomenon is encountered
is happening more and more often,” Oteloda ‘author de-
barks the natural conclusion: “the next one is
the task of the proletariat must be the question of
creating a new, proletarian culture."

In the articles: “Tasks of Proletkult” L.
B—va, “Proletkult-horn of proletarian art”

48

nusstva" S. Klubenya, "About work in studios
Proletkult" ’ Porokhovina in detail
the main tasks of Proletkult are clarified
and the main forms of its work,

“The task of Proletkult is to maintain pro-
letarian power with a clear understanding
and propaganda of the ideas of socialism, to facilitate
the working masses the opportunity to independently
create a new great thing", Proletkulli
works in contact with the extracurricular department
crowbar, “but he! will be wider’ than him, more independent
in their collective work." If the first
introduces the proletariat into what has already been created,
old culture, “that Proletkult, that—
horn proletarian culture, in which
the treasures of a new culture are forged.”

The authors of the magazine give themselves a clear
even in the difficulty of the task, They realize that
Western European proletariat, perceived
having embraced the values of the old culture, "poisoning
them"; but from here they don’t make a blunder, that
the old culture must be completely thrown away
overboard; they 'me deny cooperation
intelligentsia (as do those comrades
who, filled with great pride,
dream of creating their own culture in 24 hours),
if only the intelligentsia would “build their work”
on the principles and ideology of the proletariat,”
that is, communism.

On this occasion, S. Tuber writes; "Pro-
the origin of the artist and the setting that
I draw them in my work, not
They are still creating proletarian art. B
drama or novel, not written by a worker, can-
a worker may be depicted, a dozen workers
sneeze, factory, working class quarter, but... this drama,
this novel will not be proletarian if
they are deprived. proletarian ideology." .

This is deeply true, writers-pro-
Letaria esp. must remember this.

Article “On the Unified Labor School” K,
Pavlova is vague. From it the reader does not know
set a certain opinion about what it's worth
author: zand productive work at school,
or for work, as an educational tool
to master production methods. Although
concluding lines of the article: “labor

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. C

m

for the sake of labor or coercion, but for the sake of high-

necks of public culture”, force”
think that the author is inclined) towards the other
point of view, which we consider more
correct. r

Article “Thoughts about the theater” N®, Varyazhekoyo
little thought out; although the author talks about
new in the theater, but his new ideas are easy
fit into the framework of bourgeois understanding
theater tasks.

(Article “On proletarian magazines” (|.

VB-va was written with full understanding of the matter,

From poetry we will celebrate “Red October”
A. Pomeranian. This thing is written in the style
“Funeral” (“Prol. Kul.” No. 2, 1918), but*
inferior to the latter in its musical
sti. It lacks that unity and harmony
between content and form, which... feel
appears in "Funeral", We have just
looked through the numbers of the capital and almost all
provincial tazet dedicated to October
sky coup. Beyond any dispute “Kras-
new October of A. Pomeranian, despite
These points are the best thing.
The rest are either stereotyped or boring;
the majority and they can't be with joesia
attributed,

Narrating_ “To Freedom” F, Owls’ written
simply, sincerely, I bury, although in the old
style,

Go Mado to say the same thing about. story
Mokhnachev “Binding of firewood”. The authors of the pre-
They are fluent in the technique of writing, but... times-
The theme and form are the same,

As in all proletarian magazines,
There are no stories with modern themes. everyday life
and related psychology,

Working-class writers especially should concentrate
focus your attention on the newborn
new life to help with construction
socialist life,

This, of course, is difficult, but let’s believe
that over time this problem will be resolved,

Magazine, if it will expand, meter"
titus the widest response: among the proletarians
of the masses, and quite deservedly so. I

The editors of the magazine ask you to send them work magazines for feedback.
and e-books of proletarian writers and poets..

Publisherspruce

Russian State Publishing House.

Editor -

Reichskonie Shollegiya.

Second State Printing House Trekhirudny, 9.

m