`Proletarians of all countries, unite!

_ Proletarian Nultura.

TWO-WEEK MAGAZINE.

Organ Center. Committee of the All-Russian Propetkupt Council,
Publication of the State Publishing House,

Editorial office and office address: Meskva, Volkhonka, 18. Tel. 26-30.
Reception with the editorial secretary daily from 11 to | h. diya

about m. July. 1918

G
$} CONTENTS: 1 - V.P th. Our criticism. —
Ogdanov, Workers' Club, - Xia K Ideal -d. To co-
Calling the All-Russians conf. prol, -k, = pr. R.'s theses and cultural
tourneys equal U "Polyansky, ka and the working class, -A. VB.
Ideals of social
'N. Ulyanova (N. Kruiskaya). * Iron Messiah.—B, Kirialov, Funeral, —A, Po
maritime Miracles of work,—A;, Gastev. Chronicle of Proletkult: Deut. conf, Pet-
rogr. "Proletkulta", -/7, L. In the provinces, - BT. Krivtsov. Bibliography: Literature,
Almanac, -V. p, K. Timiryazev; Red Banner, - A. O. Izzestia Moskov, Prolet. |
Univ.—S.D. | „

Nationalization and socialization

After the great revolutionary storm that swept over Europe - the storm, the ro-
erupted in the popular movement of 1789 in France, they act in social life
two clearly defined and sharply hostile principles: nationalism and socialism.

The revolutionary impulse of the bourgeoisie with its declaration of the rights of man and citizen
pipa, with solemn hymns to freedom and equality, after 1848, when
The proletariat became obsessed with its social interests and began to fall rapidly.
The ideals of freedom and humanity in connection with the development of capitalist economics
ties are replaced by the ideals of national political freedom. Initially
new desire for economic independence from other nations, ‘again
due to the requirements of the capitalist economy, gradually but steadily
rotates into modern! nationalism, the most vulgar, the most aggressive in
in recent years - nationalism-imperialism. Large industry of cedar kami-
talist countries, on the one hand, need for production purposes in sat-

\ our various raw materials; on the other hand, in the markets, where you can
"was to direct both their products,so do capitals, if they remain unused
called within their state. This is the economic side of the matter. how
once made the bourgeois classes forget about their great slogans of “brotherhood,
equality and freedom,” with which the masses were bribed, and turn
into greedy capitalist predators enslaving weak ‘nationalities’ under
flag of national development and prosperity and their inclusion in the highest culture
tour.
While the bourgeoisie advances the basic element of its culture—
nationalism, the lower strata of the population and, most importantly, of course, the working class,
creates his own gospel—socialism. At the very moment of the revolution of 1848, appears
published by K. Marx and F. Entels “Communist Manifesto”, in which
Tori 0 declare with all decisiveness that “proletarians have no fatherland.”
Breaking the ideology of nationalism, which covers the interests of the bourgeoisie, they
show that the very first and main enemy of the working class of all countries is capital
4
2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 2

tal both nationally and internationally. It was logical
conclusion from the study of the laws of development of capital, which requires for its existence
of surplus value, and, consequently, of the exilation of labor 9 broadly
of the people's masses.

In the first years of the young bourgeois culture, when capital and the remains
feudal serfdom and medieval religious ideology, carried out
took on a revolutionary role and expressed his strong revolutionary worldview
nii, nationalism did not wear an animal form. ,

Schiller, in one of his letters to Kerner, wrote: “And the leaders of the fatherland play
‘role in the life of the immature nations of this world’s youth. Writing for the nation is an ideal
pathetic, petty. A philosopher is able to be inspired by something national
only insofar as the nation or events concerned are important
for progress."

Goethe thought the same thing. “At a certain stage of development, the national non-
The whist disappears completely. People outgrow the nation and feel sorrows and joys.
treat your neighbors like your ownself-made. This degree of culture corresponds to my
character,” Goethe told Eckerman.

Highly humanitarian and cosmopolitan tendencies aimed at
Fichte's teachings were imbued with the upliftment of the German spirit, and then of all humanity,
great enthusiast, Germany tozo time. Crudely materialistic national
This feeling is alien to him.
to the German people." Fichte cruelly and mercilessly castigated the "special fish"

"patriotism", |

Bourgeois culture is essentially anarchic and individualistic,
like the capitalist system itself. She develops these basic tendencies without
only in the ideology and character of an individual or class, but also of an entire state
the state as an individual. At the first stage of its development, when capital is not
managed to get strong enough in one country or another and discover his aspirations
the desire to become international, when it has not yet had time to reveal itself in all its
However, the class struggle and nationalism have a touch of cosmopolitanism. After, when
the laws of market and exchange collide national capitalistic economies
and draw them into the struggle for economic dominance, the nobility of the phrase follows
tat, with bourgeois theories, like brilliant but cheap tinsel, and nationalism
is already taking on the appearance of Bismarck, today the cloud of Scheidemann, Thoma, Plekhanov
or Potresov, who put forward a theory about the state of leviathan, as a stage from the culture
tours of nationalism to the culture of socialist internationalism.

How strong and deep are the nationalist tendencies of bourgeois culture,
it can be seen at least from the fact that the best representatives of international socialism
during the global carnage perpetrated by the imperialist robbers, they
their side.

They ‘found themselves entirely in the networks of their national-individualistic world-
understanding. They became immutable nonsense. truths of the Communist Mani-
festa; “Totser, thanks to the development of the bourgeoisie, free trade, global
market, the monotony of production methods and the corresponding livesimportant in relation to
singing, national isolation and the opposition of interests of various
There are more and more peoples and the big ones are disappearing.”

They forgot with what enthusiasm, imbued with revolutionary energy, Wil-
Thelm Liebknocht, developing the ideas of the Manifesto, spoke at the Marseilles Congress
1892 then: “For us, socialists, there is no question of nationality; we know
only two nations: ‘a nation of capitalists, bourgeoisie, ruling classes, with
on the one hand, and on the other hand, a nation of the dispossessed, the working class.
The workers of all countries form one nation, which is different, also
one and the same in all countries."

This point of view was also defended by Mr. Plekhanov until his political death. In No. 2
“The Diary of a Social Democrat” in 1905, he brilliantly proved that the words “irole-
Tarni have no fatherland,” the Nazis responded to the ideolots of the bourgeoisie, accusing
The problem with the communists is that they want to destroy the fatherland. It turns out that
that the authors were talking about the “fatherland”, understood in a very specific way
No. 2 1 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 3

the sense that bourgeois ideologists gave to this concept... This is a "prole-
Tarii have no fatherland” was fair at that time... will remain fair
now... and in the future, no matter how great those political conquests were,
achievements that the working class has yet to fulfill.” Now he has forgotten it and but-
fights with the non-rational-idealistic ideology of Kant, throwing Marx aside as
unnecessary rags,

While the old generation of socialists, who grew up in the ‘conditions of a young
bourgeois culture, represented by Plekhanov, Akovlrots, Getz, Vandelvelde and others
gee, failed in the bloody nightmare that gripped the world to break out of the shackles of ideology
non-cyonalistic bourgeois culture, shadowed for many years under the fragile
due to their purely cerebral assimilation of Marxism, the young generation of socialists -
F. Adler, K. Liebknecht, Maclean, working youth almost all over the globe
immediately abandoned nationalism, joining the ranks of internationalists, through the efforts
which, in the end, will be opthe bloodthirsty Moloch of war is thrown and crushed,
erected on all routes and outposts by international capital. Young Yoko-
The union grew out of the conditions of brutal class struggle. No illusions of specificity
national culture (national unity, independence, etc.) about its
the empowering role of the national spirit could not deceive him. Bitter dey
reality always and immediately revealed the true essence of the matter. But since
Krenko was the building of the old culture, these pioneers of the new life, the closest predecessors
the successors of the New Man, could not shake and weaken the centuries-old education
accepted nationalist psychology. A great catastrophe was needed. Time
By destroying capitalism, it simultaneously kills its child, nationalism. Until now
Since then, peoples brought up in conditions of nationalist culture have always pro-
set their interests against the interests of other peoples, and the national
pros, as a question of the struggle between the cultures of certain peoples, complicated by many
theoretical considerations seemed completely insoluble.

The Great Russian Revolution was needed. In its global scope, advancing
new slogan of peace between peoples, subject to self-determination of peoples,
until they are separated from the state body to which the given people are forcibly
was once annexed by the strongest, our revolution immediately touched the soil
to resolve the issue,

Much earlier, one of the most prominent Austrian theorists of national
no question; K. Schiringer wrote: “After complete separation makes
own Business, it will become redundant, and it can be replaced by a relative
steem. Now nations are perversely connected with each other; they should be released
from each other, and they ‘will then be able to intelligently unite again’.

We are living in this process of intelligent connection now. In the first moments
revolution, the peoples oppressed by Parisism, at the first wave of freedom, demanded
themselves the rights of broad autonomy, they opposed themselves to the imcerialistic
Great Russia. When did the October Revolution give them completeright to exist
establishment as independent republics, a counter-revolutionary movement within
nations clearly showed that there are only two nations in the world: capitalists
and proletarians. When the proletariat, of all nationalities, fights together against
counter-revolutionary detachments, the slogan of a joint policy, internal
external and external, as put forward by the Soviet government in Ukraine and Finland
days. We Communist-Bolsheviks have never been federalists in capitalism.
cical state; we knew that this would generally lead to a weakening of the proletarian
strength and to strengthen the bourgeois-nationalist culture, but we willingly go
to meet the desires of the masses to live the life of a separate state, since
We understand perfectly well that the ongoing social revolution in the fight against
the bourgeoisie will force the proletariat of different countries into the closest and strongest union
to fight for their ultimate ideal - socialism, as a new universal human culture
tour.

In order for the proletariat to be able to fight imperialism
as an economic and ideological system, it needs to unite its
political, economic and cultural-educational organizations in the international

1*
4 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. . . No. 2

native masshiab on the basis of his revolutionary worldview—international-
national socialism. It is necessary, in addition, to imbue the proletariat with moral
new energy, social idealism, spirit of solidarity and self-sacrifice,
which are as important as knowledge to achieve the goal of the working class;

In No. 1 of the Internationale magazine, Rosa Luxemburg wrote: “German s0-
Zirl-democracy has been harvesting the rich fruits of Marxist science for 60 years.
But faced with the great historical test that she foresees,
affairs with the precision of a natural scientist in all essential features, she turned out to be
deprived of the other vital element of the labor movement: effective will.
History must not only be “understood, but done.”

And for this we need some kind of powerful, living force that determines the will.: feeling
solidarity and creative impulse of the proletariat. Ega, the strength of the interests of the individual is sub-
serves the interests of the class, the interests of the nation—the interests of humanity.

Collective creativity and social life should embrace everyone
aspects of life, the proletarian and tear him out of the captivity of old ideas and feelings that
I take away the wings of our propaganda, the attractive power of integrity and clarity
and benefit only our enemies.

In short, the proletariat must smash stone by stone the building of the national
stic culture of the canital.

This period has arrived. A new culture is laying its foundation. Burju-
The different world, receding into history, takes nationalism into the distance of centuries. It is replaced by dirt
Children's internationalism not only as a theory, but as a genuine socialist
‘culture with. all its features.

The path of this procession is stained with the blood of those who fell in the great struggle for a new world.
comrades, but the advance of socialism, creating common ownership,
shared power and shared responsibility will be a relief to all people. “Alone,” as

wrote’. Jaurès in "Humanity" dated 13th Aug. 1905 - the day before the former workers
bami and those who have undergone exsilation will then be freed from the burden of poverty,
excessive work, blind ignorance and envious but restless lust
niya... The consolation and joy of countless subtle impulses will be available to the mind
and consciousness of everyone, and people will no longer suffer from the impulses of their own
hearts. Then a wondrous light will truly shine. It will flow in a wide wave
he, through the widened windows of poor huts, and through the trustingly open windows
Botachi, who will then throw off the pride of their dominance, and through wide
The gaps of factories, revived by brotherly free labor. He will penetrate ‘everything’
wells and will flood everything, it will burn in all hearts and glow in all
eyes." at
Valeryan Polyansky.

Our criticism. '
Article pbrvaya: 0 artistic heritage.

Two enormous tasks face the working class in the field of art. Per-
vaya - independent creationquality: to recognize oneself and the world in harmonious living images,
organize your spiritual powers in artistic form. The second is getting
‘ice: to master the treasures of art that were created by the past, ‘to make
everything great and beautiful. in them, without understanding the spirit reflected in them
bourgeois and feudal society. This second task is less difficult than the church
Zaya: Let's explore general ways to solve it.

T.\u

A believer who seriously and carefully studies another’s religion is
there seems to be a danger of being seduced by it or learning something heretical from it
No. 2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 5

< from the point of view of one's own faith. Thus, learned Christians; researchers will
disism, happened more than once, were done by Buddhists themselves or followers
the royal teachings of Buddhism; but it also happened. the opposite. Let's say those are religious
New systems are studied by a free thinker who is in all religions. sees pro-
the phenomenon of zoelic creativity of peoples; This is not the complete truth, but part of it.
Is he in such danger as a believing scientist? Of course not. He
can with the greatest delight perceive the beauty and depth of the teachings, conquering
killed hundreds of millions of people; but he perceives them from a religious point of view, and in another way,
highest point of view. The enormous wealth of thought and feeling, sorted into everyday life
dism, will probably give his heart and mind more than the mind and heart of a scientist
stiancin, ‘who, while studying, cannot get rid of the hidden resistance of his own
a national thief fighting against the “temptation” of a stranger; but precisely the temptation to become
a believing Buddhist does not exist for a free thinker, because
This is the mechanism of his consciousness, processing religious material in its own way,

Both the Christian and the free thinker take Buddhism "critically."
The fundamental difference lies in the very nature of their criticism, in its foundations—“criticism.”
teriah." The believer is not above the subject of his study, but approximately
on the same level as him. He criticizes from the point of view of his dogma and his feelings,
looking forcontradictions in other people's myths, cults, moral revelations and, finding
these contradictions, is unable to appreciate the often hidden poetic or life-
real truth; and if he penetrates into it, then he will pay with the contradiction in himself
himself - “will fall into temptation.” For him, Buddhism cannot appear as a cultural
a consequence of an alien world; and if he sympathetically accepts this faith, it will accept
will nit him and force him to abandon his previous one.

Things will turn out little better for the ferocious atheist, the representative of progressive
<not yet fully developed bourgeois consciousness, which in every
religion sees only superstition and deception. This is a “topsy-turvy believer”; he's just
so superior to religion as to reject it, but not so high as to understand it.
For him, she is also an inheritance, and in the worst case, a temptation, if he feels
It is clear that she is only deception and superstition, but she will not understand what exactly:

In a different position, a free thinker, a representative of the highest level,
what bourgeois consciousness is capable of achieving. His understanding of religious creativity
quality, as folk-poetic, allows him, within this point of view,
completely freely and impartially evaluate your subject. There will be no difficulty for him
with the desired internal contradiction to see that, for example, in the depth of ideas the laws

The manus of the ancient Aryans are in many ways superior to both ancient and modern Christianity,
and their attitude towards death, expressed in funeral rites, according to philandering,
in grandeur and beauty surpasses the Christian beyond comparison. He, free from
‘religious consciousness in general and leading the fight against it everywhere where it is
darkens thought and distorts the will of people, he at the same time is able to do for himself
and for others all religions are a valuable cultural heritage.

The attitude of the proletarian to the entire culture of the past, the culture of the world, is bourgeois-
the world and the feudal world, goes through similar stages. At first she is for him—
just culture, culture in general; essentially he has no idea about the web.
There may be errors in its science and philosophy, but not in its art.black motives,
in its morality and law - injustice; but all this for him is not connected with her existence

“Your, these are her mistakes, deviations, imperfections, ‘which her progress must
fix. If then he notices “bourgeoisness” and “aristocratism” in her, then
he understands both only in a mixture of the differences or peres of the ruling classes.
owls, defense falsifying culture; the very methods and point of view of this culture
tury - its essence - is not subject to doubt for him. He stands entirely on her
soil, and, trying to assimilate “what is good in it,” is not protected against it
‚even to the extent that a Buddhist or a Buddhist is protected from the temptations of Christianity
manist studying it, and vice versa. He becomes saturated with old ways of thinking.
and feel, with all the attitude towards the world based on them. Our own, proletarian
The class point of view is retained by him only there and insofar as where and insofar as
Tolov %class chiiperes speaks quite clearly and quite authoritatively. When
he is so clear and convincing, but the life question is difficult and complex, especially
6 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ‘No. 2

if it is new, then it is not decided independently: either it is simply shaved ready
someone else's decision from the surrounding social environment, or even the class proletarian
Chinese interest is illuminated and understood from someone else's point of view. Both are bright
was revealed in the attitude of the working-class intelligentsia of European countries to the world
war, when it broke out: some, almost without thinking, surrendered to the wave: patriotic
tism, others were able to “realize” that the highest interests of the working class required
unity with the bourgeoisie for the protection and fear of the ‘fatherland and domestic production’
stva; for “the collapse of both would throw back the working class and all civilization
far back."

On this. extremely cruel experience, it becomes quite clear that if the
of your worldview, your ways of thinking, your
from the general point of view, the proletarian masters the culture of the past as his own
consequence, and she takes possession of him as human materialm for your tasks,

If the proletarian, convinced of this, comes to a naked, anarchic negation
renounces the old culture, i.e., renounces the inheritance, then he takes a position.
a naive atheist in relation to the religious heritage, but again
in a worsened sense; because a bourgeois atheist can do without understanding religions
nevertheless, it is practically possible that it already has other cultural supports, built
Only the breadth of thought and scope of creativity gives. The worker then turns out to be
unable to oppose the rich, developed culture of a hostile camp
nothing of equal strength; because to create something like this completely anew
in scale it cannot. It remains an excellent tool and weapon in the hands
there are no enemies against him.

The conclusion is clear. The working council needs to find, develop and carry out
the end point of view, superior to the entire culture of the past, as a point.
the viewpoint of a free thinker in relation to the world of religions. Then it will be possible
to master this culture without subjugating it—to make it an instrument of construction.
new life and a weapon of struggle against your old society.

'

RE.

The beginning of such mastery of the spiritual forces of the old world was laid by Karl
Marx. The revolution he made in the field of social sciences and social
philosophy, was that he revised their basic methods and extracted
results from a new higher point of view, which was proletarian-class.
Nine-tenths, if not more, of not only materials for your tisane
buildings, but also the methods of their development, Marx took from bourgeois sources: bourgeois
exquisite classical economy, reports of the English factory inspection, small-scale
bourgeois criticism of capital by Sismondi and Proudhon, and in essence almost all of it.
intellectual socialism of the utopians, dialectics of German idealism, material
lism of the French Enlightenment and Feuerbach, social class constructs
French historians and shadowy descriptions of class psychology by Balzac,
it. d., it, d. All this came out in a different form andformed into a new connection, transformed
exploded into an instrument for building a proletarian organization, into a weapon of struggle
against the gobidom of capital.

How could such a miracle happen?

Marx established that society is primarily the organization of production,
that this is the basis of all the laws of his life, the entire development of his forms. This is the point
the point of view of the social producing class, the point of view of the labor collective.
Based on it, Marx criticized the science of the past and, purifying its material.
having melted it in the fire of his irek, he created from it proletarian knowledge—scientific
socialism.

So, this is the way in which the results of cultural creativity of the past ‘were
turned into a real legacy of the working class: critical ‘reworking’
but from a collective labor point of view. This is how Marx himself understood the matter; recently-
He called his main work, Capital, a “Critique of Political Economy.”
L. 2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 7

=>

And this applies not only to the social sciences. In all others
areas in exactly the same way by the method of obtaining and assimilating cultural heritage.
is a noma-critique, proletarek-class.

t.

Let us reveal more fully the basis of our criticism—the essence of collective labor
Dovoy point of view.

The social process falls apart in three moments, or, perhaps more precisely,
has three sides: technical, economic, ideological. In technical
society fights against nature and subjugates it, vol.-6. organizes the outside world into int
interests of your life and development. In economic relations of cooperation
and distribution between people—it itself organizes itself for this struggle © at-

ode. In ideological terms, it organizes its experience, its transformation, creating
These are organizational tools for your entire life and development. Therefore,
This task in technology, in economics, in the sphere of spiritual culture is a task

o childbearing and, moreover, social.

There are no exceptions here and there can be no, Let the army set as its goal the destruction
execution, extermination, disortanization. But then this is not the final goal, but rather;for what? in order to reorganize the world in the interests of the collective, which
the army belongs, Let the individualist artist imagine what he creates
for oneself and from oneself; but if he really created only for himself, and not for the organiza-
reduced the thinning of a certain collective, then his creativity to anyone except
it, and there would be no need for it, it would not relate to spiritual culture in the same way as
elusive, indescribable, even beautiful dreams do not belong to her
dreams; and if he created only from himself, without using material, sioso-
framework for its processing, embodiment and expression, obtained from the social environment,
then he would have created absolutely nothing.

So, the collective labor point of view is 606-organizational. Other and not
may be the point of view of the working class, which organizes external matter.
into the product—in your work, yourself into the creative and fighting team—in your
cooperation and class struggle, their experience in class consciousness—in all its
life and creativity, and to which history entrusts the mission—harmoniously and holistically orth-
destroy the entire life of all humanity.

THAT. o

Let's return to our first illustration. Can, should the whole world reli-
tic creativity to become a cultural legacy for the working class, against
whom every religion so far clearly serves as an instrument of enslavement? Which one
such an inheritance benefits him, what should he do with it?

''Our criticism provides a clear and comprehensive answer to this question.

Religion is a solution to an ideological problem for a certain type of collective
tiva, namely, authoritarian. ETS is a collective built on an authoritarian co-
cooperation, in the leadership role of some, in the performing role of others, in
power-submission. Such was the patriarchal clan community, such was the fe-
distant society, such is the serf and slave organization, political
Tsei-bureaucratic scum; the modern army has the same character,
and on a small scale, the bourgeois family; and, finally, on the authorities - the face of the
it and capital of their enterprises.

What's theIs the ortanization task of ideoloticism? Slender and holistic
organize the experience of the team in such accordance with its structure that
the resulting cultural products themselves served, in turn, as organizational
new tools for him, i.e. preserved, formalized, consolidated, developed
further given to the organization of the collective. And it’s easy to see how all these salaries are
occurs in an authoritarian system of life.

>

‘r#
8 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 2

This system is simply transferred to the realm of experience and thought. Any action, sti-
chemical or human, every phenomenon is presented as a combination of two
links: organizational, active will and effective execution. The whole world
is conceived in the image and likeness of an authoritarian society, with supreme authority,

deity" above him, and the complication of the av\Fritary connection, with the value of his subordinates ›
to him authorities, one after another, lower gods, “half-bots”, “saints”, etc.,
governing different areas or aspects of life" And 'all these' ideas
permeated with authoritarian/feelings, moods: admiration, submissiveness
u06t0; respectful fear. This is the religious attitude: it’s just—
authoritarian ideology,

It is completely clear what a perfect organizational tool this is for the author:
container structure of life. Religion directly introduces a person into this system, puts him on the
shared place in the system and. disciplines him to fulfill the role that
which is predetermined for him in this system. In the unity of feeling, thought and practice of personal
ity organically merges with its social whole. It acquires value
We will destroy a strong seal. G : $

The form of religious creativity is predominantly poetic, as is true
Vilna was noted by our free thinker, who, however, did not catch the main thing -
cial content of religion. At those stages of development when there was religion. warehouses-
It turns out that poetry has not yet separated itself from practical and theoretical knowledge,
still covers them with its shell, And religion then contains everything and everyone
knowledge organizes all experience evildey: knowledge in general is understood then as open-
a voice emanating directly or through intermediaries from a deity.

What, after all, is the legacy of religiosity culture for the ra-
Fbocheto’ class? Very important and valuable. Having gone through his criticism, she becomes
For him, it is a tool not for maintaining, but for understanding everything authoritarian in life. Auto-
the ritualistic world has become obsolete, but has not died; Wow, remnants surround us on all sides,
sometimes openly, sometimes—more and more often—hiding itself in all sorts of, sometimes the most
unexpected protective clothing. To defeat such an enemy, you need to
know deeply and seriously. ‹

The point is not only to refute religious teachings; although in this
the worker who is armed with new criticism will be armed immeasurably better
A well-respected but naive atheist who refutes the faith of others with logical
calculations or childish statements that religion was invented by the Iopians for the purpose of
wounds of the people. Another important thing is that the possession of this inheritance makes it possible
correctly assess the importance of the authoritarian elements of the current society, their mutual
personal connection and attitude to social development.

If religion is a tool for preserving an authoritarian organization, then it is clear
that, for example, in class relations, the religiosity of workers is harmful to
of their subordination, a means of maintaining in them that side of discipline that
‘which the ruling ones need for ensured exploitation, no matter what they say
These are different believing socialists. It is clear that accepted in many working couples
In other words, the formula—“religion is a private matter”—is more like a temporary political
a logical compromise that cannot be stopped. It becomes clear that the constant
s0103 sabers and barbs, military cliques and churches: here and there strictly authoritarian ortaniza-
tions. This also explains the attachment of the bourgeois or peasant’ patriarchal
“relation to religion, to the “law of God,” and at the same time a huge impact is revealed
the relevance of this remaining authoritarian cell for social progress. In the new
light plays the role of party leaders—authorsthets—and the meaning of the collective
control over them, etc. d., it. d.

And then again - all the artistic wealth of people's experience, crystallized
Therefore, in all kinds of sacred traditions and scriptures, pictures of an alien, own
imaginative, in its own way harmonious life, expanding the horizon of man, deeply
giving birth to the global movement of humanity, pushing towards new, independent
Therefore, not bound by the usual ‘situation and habits, we wanted to create...

Should the working class take on the religious inheritance? /
ye

No. 2 AND ROLE ETARIAN CULTURE. 9

th,
u. :

I started it on purpose. from the more controversial and difficult. It's easier to deal with our
The main task is the question of the artistic heritage of the past. I know what I'm talking about
ie through which the worker: class. can and should control him, there is one. same
mash" criticism, with its new, vee-organizational, collective-labor point
vision. b

How does she approach her subject here?

The best thing about a work of art is that it is called “art”
eco-idea." This is---this is the intention. the essence of the execution, or task and
the principles of its decision. What kind of task is this? Now we know: no matter how
the artist himself trilled at it, but in reality it is always the task of orgamy -
ational. And, moreover, in two senses: firstly) the point is to be harmonious and
to comprehensively organize a certain sum of elements of life and experience; 2) about
the whole thus created served itself as an instrument of organization for some
horny team. If the first is not present, then before. we are not art, but unclastic
ditsa; if there is no second, then the work is not interesting to anyone except the author, and neither
for which it is not necessary. .

As an illustration, we will take one of the greatest works of world literature -

’ tours, the most beautiful diamond of the old-cultured legacy—Hamlet” Shakes-

feast
What is his artistic direction? This is the formulation and solution of the ortani-
national task about the human soul, which is bifurcated by the difficult life
a contradiction. between the desire for happiness, love,harmonious life
know between the need to wage a painful, harsh, merciless struggle.
How to get out of this contradiction, how to reconcile it? How to achieve
so that the thirst for harmony does not weaken a person in the inevitable battles of life,
did not take away the strength, firmness, composure necessary for this and at the same time
time, the forced cruelty of the blows, the blood and dirt of the wounds inflicted did not destroy
all the joy, all the beauty of life? How to restore the connection and integrity of the soul, once
torn in two by a sharp clash between its deepest, highest needs
power and demand, which is dictated by the hostility of the environment
<red?
“And we immediately see how enormously wide the scale of this ortanization is for-
dachas have such enormous universal significance. She treats, of course, more
not only to the ancient Prince Hamlet and not to numerous “tamlets” and “ta-

“the philistines” of our philistinism and our literature. This task is inevitable

moment in development. every person; whoever has the strength to solve it will raise it
Mast to a higher level of self-awareness; whoever lacks them, for that she
becomes a source of spiritual collapse, and sometimes death. Perhaps just
This tradism penetrates more sharply into the soul of the idealist proletarian, and even more into the collective
lecture mentality of the working class. Brotherhood is an ideal; harmony of life. veego
humanity is the highest goal; but how far from this the environment is, kyo-
what a difficult, sometimes darkly cruel struggle she imposes on the 6th, under the threat of
despite everything achieved through previous countless efforts, the loss of this social
dignity and the very meaning of life. Few joys are given to him, and his thirst for them is great;
but what little there is is constantly threatening to be taken away or poisoned by the inevitable
spontaneity of social hostility and anarchy; in the bitterness of the struggle, in despair
defeats and the frenzy of retaliatory strikes, isn’t the most social

‘ability to love and rejoice?

'Hamlet's tragedy unfolds on this basis. He is a man of riches
rennet, with fine artistic nature and at the same time spoiled by life.
The rise of the prince-heir to the throne, several years of student wanderings
io Germany, enjoyment of everything that came from studying science and art with one’
<parties, cheerful friendly environment—e other; finally, by the time
matings, bright, poetic love for Ophelia... Rarely does anyone in the world get ‘su
then PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 2

existence, so full of happiness and harmony. Hamlet got used to it, otherwise
has not experienced it and cannot give it to himself. But the time comes—horror and rottenness
life creeps up on him - first a dull premonition, then a painful
obviousness.

His family was destroyed, the legal order of his fatherland was shaken.
The traitor-fratricide took possession of the throne of his father, seduced his mother; hypocrisy,
intrigue and debauchery reign at court; the decline of good old morals is spreading across
country, causing chaos. It is necessary to restore the law, stop crimes,
to avenge the death of his father and the family's shame. This is Hamlet’s immutable duty,
determined by the entire system of feudal consciousness. '

Does he have the strength for this? Yes, he has them in his rich nature; he's
not only an artist and a favorite of fate, not only passive. esthete" who likes
air, a harmonious environment is needed for life. He is also the son of the king-
warrior and descendant of the powerful Vikints, who received excellent military training
There is a fighter in him, but he has not developed, has not tested himself until then and
yet. worse—tied into one person as a passive esthete.

This is the essence of trading. The struggle requires Hamlet to be cunning, deceitful,
violence, cruelty; they in themselves are disgusting to this soft and gentle soul, and between
Therefore, they also have to be directed against the people closest and dearest to him:
The beloved one finds herself in the camp of enemies. their mother, and he sees how a tool of in-
Ophelia is fighting against him. The gates push them forward, like experienced
strategists skillfully take advantage of the weak points of the soul. Raised to strike
hand stopsXia, internal struggle paralyzes the will, momentary determination
is replaced by hesitation and inaction, time is wasted in fruitless disputes with oneself
s0boy, - it turns out to be a deep split personality, and temporarily even real
crash; everything is mixed up in the chaos of hopeless contradictions, Hamlet “goes down
from Uma." th

An ordinary person would have died without having time to do anything. But Hamlet—
Fitura unusual, teroic. Through the torment of despair, through a serious illness
soul, he still moves step by step towards a real solution. Elements of races
emphasizing two personalities in one—aesthete and warrior—ironic each other
and merge” into a new unity: an active esthete, a fighter for the harmony of life. Disappears
fundamental contradiction: the thirst for harmony results in combat ‘effort, blood and
the dirt of struggle is directly redeemed by the conscious purification of life and sub-
elevating her to the highest level. Organizational problem solved, artistic
idea. has taken shape. !

Hamlet, however, dies; and in this the great poet is objectively truthful, like
anywhere. Hamlet's enemies had an advantage: while he was gathering the strength of his soul,
they acted and prepared everything for his death. But he 'dies victorious:
the crime was punished, legal order was restored, the fate of Denmark was transferred
are in good hands: the young hero Fortinbras, a smaller man,
than Hamlet, but completely integral and thoroughly imbued with the principles of that feo-
distant world, whose ideals animated. and Hamlet.

Here comes another point of our criticism. Ortanization task*io-
posed and resolved; but what kind of community gave the author vital material for her
incarnations? Of course, not #Roletarian, which didn’t exist then. Author of Hamlet
and no matter what assistance they actually receive—as we know, this is a controversial issue—
either he was an aristocrat himself, or belonged to ardent adherents of the aristocrat
racy: from this world he draws most of the content of dramas, feudal

.- the monarchical ideal leaves its mark on them. There are the basics of 'social
building—power and subordination, faith in controlthe world's will of the deity, in sacred
the authenticity and immutability of the anciently established order, the recognition of some people
higher beings, destined by birth to lead, manage
to treat others as inferior, subject to leadership, incapable of any other role,
except HER Doesn’t all this destroy the value of the work for the worker
class ; you
No. 2 PROLETAR CULTURE. ro

I’ll answer with a question: does the working class need it? know other organizational types,
except your own? Can he even work out and formalize this
<careful type otherwise than by comparing and contrasting with others, their cri-
tics, their processing, the use of their elements? And who is better than the great master
the artist could lead him into the very depths of the alien orthanization of life and thought.
is it? The task of our criticism is to show it, its historical significance, its connection with the lower
level of development, contradictions with life ‘conditions and tasks of flying-
rnata. Once this is done, there is no danger of succumbing to the influence of an alien type of organization.
tions; knowledge about it turns into one of the precious tools for creation
©his. g

And here the objectivity of the great artist provides the best support for criticism. Sami
<0b0th outlined both the entire conservatism of the authoritarian world and its co-
the apparent limitation and weakness of human consciousness in it. Worth remembering
The first appearance of the hero Fortinbras in Hamlet is the impetus for a turn in the thought of the
Let Hamlet take the path to solving his problem. "Fortinbrae with the proud conviction of
<in his rightness, without any doubts or hesitations, he leads the army to conquer some
then a piece of land not worth, perhaps, the blood of the last of the soldiers who
he will die in this war...

“Finally, of enormous importance is the fact that the ortanization task” in
the work is set and decided on the basis of the life of an alien society, and,
nevertheless, in its general form, remains valid both for present life and for
of the proletariat as a class - everywhere where the thirst for harmony is met with severity
demands of the struggle. Here art teaches the working class weightcomprehensive production
and the general solution of organizational problems, which is necessary for him to implement
realization of the world organizational ideal.

UG.

y`

Belgian › artist Constantin Meunier depicted in his sculptures
life and life of workers. His statue "The Philosopher" gives the image of a worker-thinker; loose-
especially in solving some important philosophical question. Nude figure about
plagues the whole and strong impression of the most intense thought, concentrated
on one, overcoming great invisible resistance.

What is the artistic idea behind the statue? The organizational task is
Kova: how to combine, tie together hard physical labor with the work of thought,
with ideological creativity? Solution to the problem... Who will look at the figure of the “philosopher”,
which is all permeated with restrained ‘effort, in which every visible mu-
cheekbone covered by tension, stopped and turning into external action,
as if going deep into the depths, - for this purpose with a sudden clarity and complete, immediate
This decision comes out with natural mortification: “myel itself is a physical
effort; Its nature is the same as the nature of labor, there is no contradiction between them,
their separation is artificial and transitory.” Conclusions of exact science, physiological
Russian psychology fully confirm this idea; but much closer and clearer
it is in artistic embodiment, and its enormous significance for the proletariat
doesn't need proof.

But our criticism must ask the question: from the point of view of which class?
or does the artist stand in the sodial group in his work? And ‘it turns out: although
he portrays workers, but not as a working class ideologue; labor point of view
way, but not collective labor. The worker thinker is taken individually; not
‘those connections are felt, or only very vaguely, almost imperceptibly outlined,
which merged the effort of his thought with the physical and spiritual efforts of his

`lyons, which’ make it a link in the global chain of labor. Artist-intellectual
by social status; he is used to working individually himself, without noticing
chippedHowever, his work, in origin, in method, and in tasks, comes from everything
collective labor of humanity. This is the point of view of labor culture
differs little from the bourgeois, - just as individualistic, (And here our cri-
tika must complement what the artist could not give.
72 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No.

5

"d

\up, ;

+

This is how the tasks of the proletariat are determined by themselves. criticism towards
to the art of the past. By fulfilling them, it will give the working class the opportunity to
but master it and use it yourself. organizational experience of thousands of years,
crystallized in artistic forms.

The usual understanding of the role and meaning of proletarian criticism is not like this. It is more often
in general he is straying into the position of “civic Catholicism”; when asked about his.propaganda-
propaganda value for the protection of class interests. A few years ago
back worker Iv. Kubik, calling on proletarians to study the best works
study of the literature of the old world, considered all educational influences as follows
way. Without a doubt, it contains not only pure gold, but also elements of harmful
ligatures for the proletariat,” namely, “conservative-moderating forces.” However
this is not scary, because ‘the worker has a class instinct that allows him
success in separating gold from the ligature: “If we look closely at the
from the effects that come from art, we will see what gold does,
and the ligature passes by the consciousness of the worker... To me personally, through observations,
I had to be amazed at how insensitively minded the worker is sometimes from this
even one innocent work manages to draw revolutionary conclusions” (“Our
Zarya", 1914, No. 3, pp: 48-49). This is a naive point of view, at the very core of the opi--
barrel,

There is little good in such an instinct, which from a truly innocent product
Deniya “manages” to draw revolutionary conclusions. Distortion if distortion.
What does it indicate? About the great power of direct feeling and about the week‹ -
statke of objectivity, that. thought is lower than this feeling and obeys it.
Is this really supposed to be the consciousness of the class that ‘has to decide the settlement?
ortanization task?

‚Kubikov takes Schilleroveky as an example of the relationship between “gold and ligature”
“Don Carlos”, and he believes: denunciation of tyranny, fiery speeches of the Marquis
Poses are gold; but the fact that he dreams of an absolute monarchy, only dog -
enlightened and humane, this is a ligature, Incorrect. On “fiery words” and he-
weaknesses and weaknesses of the mind, the reader can be perfectly educated in the direction
revolutionary phrase. Vice versa; living, artistically deep expression of ideology
The ala of enlightened absolutism is not at all a “ligature” for the reader historically.
conscious, standing on the point of view of proletarian criticism. Ideal—mind-
new model of organization; know and understand such models that develop in
shlym, ‘’and necessary for the class—the organizer of the future. In the struggle of personal heroes,
drawn by the artist, it is necessary to ‘catch the struggle of social forces that determined
consciousness and will of the people of that era, the need for certain ideals, follows
I understand from the nature of these forces. Artistic insight into the souls of the disappeared
or classes leaving history, as well as classes occupying its arena, there are some
of the best ways to ‘master the accumulated cultural and organizational experience -
the most precious inheritance for the builder class. th

And since the art of the past is capable of nurturing feelings and
proletariat, it should serve as a means of their deepening and enlightenment
and expansion of their fields for the entire life of humanity, throughout the entire career path,
but not as a means of excitement, not as a propaganda tool,

| *

-
*,
$1

A critic who can convey to the proletariat the ‘great work of history’
swarm of culture, for example, in the theater after the presentation of a shadow play
convey to the audience the meaning and value of the organizational collective-labor

point of view, or give them such an ‘interpretation in a short and accessible volume.

explanatory passage, or, papr., to highlight in an article in a workers’ newspaper, a worker
magazine poem, roman of the great master, = - this critic will do a serious job and
necessary for the working class’ 1

*

No. 2. PROLETARIAN CULTURE. ; 13
Here is a vast field of work, necessary and at the same time most reliable.

Sing, work that never goes to waste.
A. Bogdanov.

Workers' club.

_What should a workers' club be?

To answer this question, we must define the goals and objectives of the work.

what class at all. Only under this condition is it possible with the greatest expediency
full use of this instrument of class organization.

^ The liberation of the proletariat from capitalist work presupposes
destruction of private property’ in the means of production and its replacement with a form
public To accomplish this colossal task, the proletariat must
overcome not only material resistance in the video of physical strength and those;
nothing of mastery, but also spiritual resistance in the form of those prevailing in the Bur-
iuaz society of norms and habits: The struggle for class influence and power in
The capitalist system forced the proletariat to create a political party.
The struggle for economic improvement in the present and the mastery of literary production in
future dictated the working class to create a second form of movement—the workers
unions, which are at the same time a means of facilitating the study
social organization of enterprises and administrative-technical management
niya them. The third form of the labor movement—cooperative—sets as its task
Ultimately, you will master the organization of product distribution. _

All three forms contribute to the development of self-awareness and understanding of class
provisions, & as a result of this follows the need to fight for windows -
final liberation and triumph of the socialist system. All this is pre-
develops a huge stock of knowledge and skills and a deeply developed ideology of development
logogo class. The basis of this ideology, which should illuminate, is a special proletarian

‘The whole world of human relations, never seen before, was laid down by K. Mark-

scrap Now that our proletariat stands inlastiy entered the zone of social
more than ever it is necessary to proceed consciously and ortanizovaiio
© further expansion and deepening of ideology, and since a number of
throws require practical implementation, ideology. it is necessary to specify
edit and develop in detail. This task can only be completed if
case, if we create a special independent organizational form,
cultural and educational labor movement, which will provide the opportunity to
develop ideological issues numerically and in their entirety, applying them
in practical movement. in p

“The workers’ club is one of the weapons of the cultural and educational movement,
OK should become a universal studio for the practical implementation of work culture
tour program, a living laboratory covering all aspects of the work"
life, both illuminating the demands of everyday life of the proletariat with class ideology, and
and satisfying sauros’ theoretical nature. The workers' club should
to be an institution that makes it possible to get an answer to perplexities
questions and answers to all the contradictions that the individual worker is not able to
strength to overcome. It must also be an institution that most

` our freedom will give the opportunity to express our creative impulses, as well as serve

mechanism that determines the sprouts of socialist shoots of eccentricities, which
which are capable of blooming and bearing juicy fruit.

Being one of the tools of the cultural and educational form of the labor movement,
marriage, the club was blown away as a means of developing and deepening the ideology of the working class
for all forms of the proletarian movement, and therefore its organization is entirely
varies in accordance with the tasks and requests of work organizations.

——

\
14 y PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 2

’ While satisfying spiritual needs, he must also satisfy
and requests: of a physical nature, to serve as an attractive force, where the worker
finds rest from physical and moral fatigue and will be able to dispel heavy
moments of mood, turning theminto animating social aspirations’
proletariat,

To satisfy party requests:

. There should be a party committee service table at the club, where
every member of the party can receive information, instructions, ‘wherever he
could have made the necessary messages.

2. For members of the workers' union there must be a room in which the union member
can find information and explanations on all questions related to conscious life,
©<.his activities both with the current and with the assigned workers: in accordance with the tasks
_with assumptions. It must contain all materials according to the tariff. In the central
but when rotating display cases are made, it is necessary to hang tables of tariffs
wok, if ‘not all of a given production, then at least the most characteristic
from theirs. There must also be provisions in which to determine with scientific accuracy
line professions and descriptions of their operations; _ .

1) Outlines of pricing commissions, in which departments and their functions are outlined.

2) Schemes for special administrative and technical organization are prepared
acceptances indicating the necessary literature on this issue.

3) Rules for regulation and control of enterprises, with precise definition
Functions of departments and indication of literature.

4) A special revolving display case should contain instructions for all departments
union construction, and union codification, i.e. those decisions that
Irinami form and essence of Union legislation. In addition to the above, you should
Fuck all the decrees on the work issue in the windows. The oten must be stole-
engravings of machines and machines of the latest technology, devices
on hygiene and eo devices from danger. Kotelna engravings
the best artists depicting one or another labor process.

5) It is necessary to have a room in the club for a library-reading room"

The library may be small, but well compiled, adapted
naya to our working movement as a whole, On a special shelf, on, accessible to everyone
readers” there should be all kinds of reference books, `encyclonedic
skies and todknew, dictionaries, well-compiled catalogues, collections of decrees,
wood cuttings, from newspapers on the most important issues of cultural, political
cultural and economic, the life of the proletariat,

6) Lists of books, collections, magazines are posted on the wall; they
over the last month,

7) The clipping department at a certain hour makes a report on the socialist
and the bourgeois press of the day, about published magazines and articles in the
published books.

iv) “Approximate p.s. should be displayed on the wall or in the display window
short-term courses both on general issues and on social issues
< practical seminaries. On every issue there should be a general answer
the most important literature

9) The club should have a hall for lectures and reports. Literary department reads
and discusses the works of working writers... Organizes the writing of articles and white-
literary works, organizes courses in journalism and demolition © с0-^
the corresponding department at Proletkult. It goes without saying that at the club
There should be a dining room, or, in extreme cases, a tea room.

The dolakon club strives to satisfy and develop the aesthetic needs
ness.

Among us there may be those who, for aesthetic needs, will
©<look like it’s something superfluous and. unnecessary, especially at such an acute moment
struggle. We consider this view to be a harmful misconception. Art is not only a ‘medium’

No. 2 [PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 15
a means of decoration or pleasure, but a means of organizing life by which one can-.
but it is also necessary to use it as a means of struggle. And learn to use
It is only possible when we learn to understand it. |

Art, as figurative thinking, most closely corresponds to simple thoughts
knowledge of the people to whom abstract evidentiary thinking is little accessible.
Art can most easily penetrate family life and influence the formation of
development of human psychology, freeing him from prejudices, and thus sub-
prepare workers for further social struggle for the socialist ideal.

< In addition,art organizes our feelings and helps bring them to
conscious and giving all our intentions strength and. integrity.
And so, in order to get people interested in art, we propose to decorate the groans in the club
engravings in paints about the best works of artists. Under each production
You must include a certificate: where it was written, which school, and what you wanted
the artist express to them. This will imperceptibly develop understanding and taste, and in the future
will create the opportunity not only to expand your experience, but also the opportunity to
illustrate our ideas in a clear, vivid and powerful way. For distribution
engravings, it is advisable to consult with specialists who, at the same time, understand
they pursue the task of proletarian art. Some of the rooms are desirable to be decorated
work in accordance with the themes; for something. room is intended. Purchase of engravings do-
zhka be mass and entrusted to the cultural and educational center, ‘which will give
the opportunity to save money and have better quality engravings.

16) For the development and understanding of music, it is advisable to orthologize the orchestra and
a music studio where they introduce the best works of the past
and the present and create the conditions for proletarian music, as well as the choir.

11) It is necessary to organize a theater studio of revolutionary-socialist
chesky stage. Production and dramatization of the famous proletarian writers
Loy, presentation - all this should be included in the department of the theater studio.

‚ 12) The end of everything must be a social school. sciences, which can
would facilitate mastery of the method of proletarian Marxist ideology and teach,
apply it in all areas of proletarian life and helped build its harmony
poor building as a whole.

Only this kind of orthotization of the club will serve as a powerful weapon of class.
advice on the upbringing and complete development of the worker.

. Fedor Kalinin. .

VIA AAC
. I eat

The ideal of education.

Education is the work that transforms the human larva into action.
active member of society. Consequently, this is work that introduces new units into
social/organization andthus forming it, is the work of the institutionalized
yonnaya. It is similar to the matter of recruiting, training, disciplining, distributing! ya
recruits for the army. Its essence is to prepare a person
to fulfill the role, those functions that he will have to do in the context of society
perform. X . 2

As society develops, the role of individual human units in it changes.
Naturally, the nature of education and its specific
tasks, his ideals.

In a primitive, tribal, pre-authoritarian society, there was elementality all my life
people, their upbringing was just as spontaneous. It, in fact, did not exist,
as a special task. There was no power-subordination, there was almost no division of labor.
76 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 2

The role of each community member in labor was not different from the role of others, but was consistent.
reotic: the same actions, the same skills. The child was preparing for
in practice, through direct imitation of elders and through their practical
instructions given from case to case, as it progresses.
gical education. r

Together with the first fragmentation of the human collective - into an organizational one
and servile elements - education began to stand out as a special
task. In an authoritarian society (first patriarchal-tribal, then feudal-
noe) there is, in different forms, the power of the leader-organizer; therefore,
discipline of obedience required; develops in one degree or another of siecia-
lization; This means that special training is needed. This discovery is conservative in its fundamentals.
its own tendency: thus, the role of each is predetermined either
directly by the role of his parents, whose occupations he inherits, or generally indicated
niyami tradition.

The dependence on authority and tradition means a completely religious attitude towards the world.
no. So then is education. Religion instills in a child concepts and feelings,
forming an authoritarian discipline: the belief in the irreversibility of the powerful
beginning, divine and earthly, admiration and submission to it. Oops
givesto him the connection of tradition: revelation in the past, the inviolability of foundations, bequests
ancestors, and thereby sacred. Regarding special education
this or that matter, it was entirely empirical, carried out on the very
practice through imitation on the one hand, and authoritative instructions on the other.
There was and could not be any theoretical training, since... scientific
there was no point of view. Although education has already become both tasks, but
it has not yet become a special specialty. The educator is the “authority”,
at the beginning, the closest ones are the child’s parents, who then retain this role—
so far; then, as the head of general education, the organizer acts
community life, patriarch; later he is replaced by a priest; both are representatives
religion, tradition, power.

The ideal of education here is simple, clear and alien to abstraction: to prepare people
for a very specific, not chosen by him, social function.

1$
`

Bourgeois society is a world that is fundamentally individualistic. He
characterized by isolation of the individual, the opposition of man to man,
generated by the force of the fundamental living conditions of this system: the developing
specialization, private property, external independence of the private enterprise
contradictions, private interests in the market, their struggle throughout the entire field of life
know Life contrasts the individual personality with all others, as special
hundred, owner, counterparty or competitor, in general as a special center of in-
res and aspirations, as a fighter for himself and his own. This disguises public
cooperation connection; it is hidden from the consciousness of people under continuous collisions
innovations of human atoms, under the war of all against all.

This life, however, does not cease to exist objectively, otherwise society
if it weren’t, it would have crumbled like living dust, which in its powerlessness was
would be swallowed up by the elements to become dead 'dust. The connection exists and puts
struggle within a framework that holds and protects objective cooperation. But
she is the consciousness of the erain a darkened read, under the shell of a multitude of
attracted photishes: “laws”, “rights”, “justice” standing above people,
“charitable duty”, a “truth” universally binding for them and independent of them,
“beauty”, etc. In their incomprehensibility for thinking, considering them through
the prism of struggle, these patterns of social connection are so divorced from life,
over which, however, they dominate, that they seem independent, absolute
certain goals, for which everything else is only the focus: “let the world perish,
as long as justice is done.”

\

+
Ma PROLETARIAN CULTURE. and
In the world of struggle, the strongest, the best armed, wins and survives.
Therefore, through selection, it leads to the improvement of specialists. From this
process of improvement and from the constant expansion of experience many times over
As the society grows, scientific thinking emerges. It is essentially
‘progressive, hostile to tradition.

Struggle and progress continually change people's attitudes. Thanks to this
the role of each given individual is not predetermined. A person must do it himself
determine: find, choose your vocation, your sissality. Specialty
<a wolf's social activity, including educational activity, is becoming increasingly intense. Ha-
The character of the social system clearly and immutably outlines the tasks of education.
They are much more complex than they were before. The person needs to be prepared for
free choice of a special function in society, to its fulfillment, its’ complete
valuing; and all this must be combined with the individual’s abandonment of his own
zteresov, which, however, does not destroy the common social connection.

From here emerges the scheme of individualistic education. Its elements:
“general education”, “special education”, “character education”. General
education provides the most important and most general knowledge and methods of the various
ny special areas, as an introduction to all of them and preparation of the choice between
them. Next comes special education that relates to the implementation
and improvement of the chosen personcom functions. Character education,
parallel to education, is the development of independence and diet
orins. Independence is required to fight, to defend one’s interests;
This is primarily combat independence. Discipline here means
<self-submission to the fetishes of morality, law, etc. She gotta hold the fight
for themselves and theirs within the social framework, not allowing it to turn into destruction, into
disorganization of society.

This is the individualistic ideal of education. It corresponds to the main
system, the main trends of the bourgeois world. But the bourgeois world will not speak out
in history as a precisely formed, crystallized system. He is gradually
takes shape, developing first within feudal society, then tearing apart
and shedding his shell; and Even in its most complete forms it has retained
contains a lot of elements of authoritarianism in the structure of the family, capitalist pre-
acceptance, the state, with its bureaucracy and especially the army. In various groups
elements of individualism and authority in the classes of bourgeois society
are combined in various forms and relationships. Accordingly
in actually applied education systems, depending on the nature of the state
existing classes and groups, the basic ideal is obscured by an admixture of remnants and re-
life of the past, such as, for example, teaching along with the sciences of theology, and
also dead languages, imbuing the masses of youth with only the spirit of tradition;
instilling in children nearby’ the idea of free and pure service to duty, truth, justice
wateriness—also non-judgmental obedience to authorities. etc.

The individualistic ideal of education, in essence, never fully fell asleep.
completely, in all its purity, to be realized in practice, when in the “sacristy” it was born and became
quickly ` develop to the ridicule of another higher ideal. E.

IE

„, A new world - collectivist - is emerging and growing among the bourgeois
society in the form of the working class, its organization, its new culture, ends
in the socialist system.

Organizational basis of the stakelectivism - comradely cooperation,
precisely in that highest form of it, which develops on the basis of machine iroiz-
leadership and develops further in the class associations of the pro-lbtariat. In this
cooperation, as we know, the division of functions ceases to separate people;
everyone, to the extent of knowledge and experience, participates in the development of collective will (discussion
tion and decision), each then in its execution. The role of everyone in the common cause can
and should change according to the needs of the team; everyone defines her
2

Proletarian Culture, No.?.
PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 2

together with others, participates in its definition for others, this is done again
again, the employee's role is fluid. Development of common working methods in
machine production and the subsequent development of general scientific methods
knowledge made such mobility of labor possible for the first time; capitalism with its own
fluctuations in the labor market and the instability of the situation of all types of labor
turns it into a vital necessity. For socialism it is a condition
flexibility of production forms and planned development.

Here the public figure is no longer a specialist, or rather, far from only
specialist Everyone is such an actor in the development of collective will;
and in general, all work takes on a clearly social meaning in the human mind
character; social cooperation is not obscured by struggle and disunity, it is
communication is transparent.

From the basic conditions of the new world a new ideal of education follows naturally.
tania. Olo should prepare a person not only for choosing his function in
system of cooperation, moreover, a repeatable choice, but also to participation in the
for other members of the team. Education must, therefore, give
general knowledge and general methods of work, which are created at this level of development
tia: in this the new “general education” differs from the previous one, which, by necessity,
demise was reduced to communicating fragments, at least the most important and general ones,
from special fields of knowledge and special methods.

To performand improving functions should, obviously, as well as
first, serve special ‘training. But here it does not occupy such a space.
a new place in life, as it was before, retreating before general education,
and is not limited to one specialty for each person. Under these conditions
it does not narrow the psyche, but complements and expands general education, being
its private, practical development in one direction or another.

Water education changes its character and direction much more deeply. Not-
the idea that collectivism is not characteristic of or does not need personal independence
activity. In a team, everyone complements the others, this is the essence of his role.
But he can complement them insofar as he differs from them, insofar as
unique because it is independent. It is clear that I have washed away this independence
not in defending personal interests, but in initiative, criticism, originality—-
in general in the development of individual abilities. The most formulaic defense of indie
individualism is based on a play on words that confuses it with the development of individual
ity—in the understanding of individual abilities. In fact, only collectivism is ver-
high creates conditions for their systematic and planned development. Indie world
visualism suppresses the largest mass of them not only by its narrowing
specialty, but even more so by the need for a person to defend his
creative individuality at the cost of a brutal struggle, in which great pain
Most people are placed in the most unprofitable conditions in advance. Of this, most
In reality, those few who have managed to realize it can only manifest it in life
within the limits of the remainder of their strength that they will have beyond the waste of this struggle,
Such is the individualistic freedom of individual development.

Education must discipline a person for society. But it's wow
This is a blind discipline of obedience to authority, not a fetinistic diet
duty and law. This new discipline is a living comradely connection between the team,
conscious subordination to common interests and his goals.

This is the new oneeducation ideal. He is higher than all the previous ones, and it is more difficult to overcome him -
manifestation. But he is clearly outlined in life, step by step he makes his way through
6 resistance, 4

The role of the educator here is of greatest importance and responsibility.
But on the other hand, she, nervously, clearly appears before him in all her depth and grandeur.
He recognizes himself as the real organizer of society, creating a true
a person, from something that was not a person.

ye" A. Bogdanov.
|
No. 2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. : 19

Towards the convening of the All-Russian Proletarian Conference
cultural and educational organizations,

Abstracts of reports.

Revolution and cultural tasks. proletariat.

1. The Russian revolution is social in nature. Since when
the working classes became dominant in the state, the opportunity arose
transform a modern economy into an extensive economic association,
fully satisfying all their needs with their own efforts.
|, this is what the entire policy of the Soviet government boils down to.

2. In its movement forward, in its scope, the Russian socialist
the revolution encounters obstacles from the propertied classes, who have not yet

‘there are hopes of returning political power to their own hands, - 60 parties in Europe

of the imperialist bourgeoisie, which, fearing revolution at home, strives
strangle the Russian revolution with all his might and is trying at the first opportunity
reward yourself for military failures at the expense of a weakened criminal war
Russia. 0 these attempts and plans can be fought by organizing military
no strength. |

3. The proletariat was unable to fully realize the achievements of the October Revolution
revolution of possibilities and due to the fact that broad popular masses have
whipped by the elements of petty-bourgeois anarchy, the elements of capitalist
bourgeois culture. This can be combated by developing and creating strictly
class, isolated culture of the working class.

4. Cultural independence of the proletariat—another slogan put forward
overwhelmed by life itself. If previously the labor movement followed the path of politicaland economic struggle, a new form of the labor movement is now emerging
revolutionary-cultural, as independent as the previous two.

5. This process is not new and inevitable. History provides numerous facts.
This is how it was, for example, in the Middle Ages. Kotda appeared on the historical stage
foudal, he brought with him a harmonious, at that time, rodigious-authoritarian
a worldview that permeated all life at that time. Similar
we could observe the process during the Great French Revolution, when
the young, still revolutionary bourgeoisie put forward as its ideologists
educators, ‘philosophers, Malerialists. In exactly the same way the proletariat, having risen
At the helm of the board and steering the ship into the kingdom of socialism, it is inevitable that
create a new culture on a collectivist basis.

6. The cultural and educational task is divided into two parts; purely pro-
illuminating and revolutionary-creative. The proletariat, centuries removed
from enlightenment and, in general, all the spiritual conquests of capitalist society,
must now, when the full opportunity has arisen, take possession of the wealth
bourgeois society, in order to later process them in the crucible of their class
consciousness. Most importantly, the proletariat must demonstrate independent creativity
quality in the field of art, morality, science, - in a word, in the field of everything that is one way or another
otherwise it contributes to the organization of a new life.

7. At the moment, power belongs to the proletariat and the poorest peasants
<tw, Government institutions, despite all their efforts and desires, do not
able, however, to implement and fully reflect in its work the proletarian world-
contemplation. First of all, they are forced to use on a significant scale
bourgeois intelligentsia, which undoubtedly brings bourgeois input into the work
kvass to one degree or another. Then the field of activity itself, the breadth and scope
he is forced to take into account the psychology of other strata of society, often

RA
‘ 20 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 2
volitional, but alien in generalthe communist ideal. Finally, the state
By virtue of their position, public institutions not only provide the masses with ready-made
forms of organization of one or another aspect of life, but also fill them often with
technical content: they decree. Proletarian culture must grow
to fight in the process of amateur activity at the bottom, among the large working masses.
Only they alone can do it completely! the least possible way to express their worldview and worldview
acceptance.

8. An organization that aims to provide the greatest opportunities
show the working class your initiative, your revolutionary creativity
and combine all the results of work into a coherent system, called “Proletar-
Sky Culture", abbreviated as "Proletkul. Everything that is valuable to them will be obtained
in the field of proletarian culture, should be used by state
institutions and put into practice as something lasting, destined to be included in the treasures
the face of centuries. :

9. If earlier, when our aspirations did not go further than the bourgeois Establishment =
body of the Assembly, it was possible to brush aside questions of proletarian culture,
then now, when we need to consolidate our revolutionary gains, and the broad
the mass of working people is still floundering in the petty-bourgeois element of anarchy,
you cannot build your life on the “highest achievements” of bourgeois culture; pougio
create your own culture, sharply separated from the culture of capitalist
society. Having defeated the bourgeoisie physically, it is necessary to defeat it spiritually.

10. Proletariat and science. The proletariat and art. Proletariat and morality.
Basic principles. .

V. Polyansky.

Science and the working class').

1. The class character of science does not lie in the fact that it classifies
Fez. of one class or another; such protection is either ‘publicistic only’
Chinese application of science, or its falsification. Real science can
to be bourgeois or proletarian by its very “nature”, namely, lo frois-
ideas, point of view, development methods and design. In this basic sense
not only the sciences of science can have a class character—and in fact have—public
ny, but also everything else, including mathematics or logic.

.Z. The nature of science is that it is a collective
The experience of fashion serves as a tool for organizing the life of society. Mainstream Science
in its most diverse branches is boroquois: ‘they worked on it, the commander-in-chief
Thus, representatives of the bourgeois intelligentsia concentrated in it
the material of experience available to the bourgeois classes was understood and illuminated from the point of view
from the perspective of these classes, organized by techniques and methods familiar to them,
characteristic of them; and as a result, this science served before and still serves as a weapon
diem of the bourgeois structure of society: first, as an instrument of struggle and victory of the bourgeois
juisie over the obsolete classes, then as its instrument of dominion over the classes
two labors, all the time - a tool for organizing production and “your production”
industrial progress, which was carried out under the leadership of the bourgeoisie.
Such is the organizing force: of this science; but here one can see the historical
value.

3. This limitation is already reflected in the very material of science—in co-
holding on to the experience that it organizes—most noticeably in social

1) The theoretical basis of this disease report is detailed in the brochure
“Science and the Working Class,” presenting a report by the same author at the Cult conference.
enlightenment span. island of Moscow in February 1918
No. 2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. at

sciences. Thus, in studying relations of production, bourgeois science does not
could grasp and highlight a special, and precisely the highest form of cooperation, then
comradely or collectivistic, because this form is almost
common to the bourgeois classes.

But even more significant is the limitation of that basic point of view,
which permeates all bourgeois science, because it is prompted by the very
the position of the bourgeois classes in the social system, and. therefore, everyone
their way of life. This feature lies in the separation of science from its real basis—
social work.

4. This separation began separatelylack of mental work
from the physical. In itself, it does not exclude the consciousness of an inextricable connection
practice and theory and in the social process as a whole. But for the bourgeoisie
For all classes, this whole is invisible, outside their field of vision. They are brought up
on individual farming, private property, market struggles due to
This is why they are individualistic in their consciousness, and the social nature of science
inaccessible to them, incomprehensible. For them, science is not organized collectively
labor experience and a tool for organizing collective labor: for them, knowledge is
something in itself, something even opposite to practice, which has its own special,
“ideal”, “logical” nature, and if in fact can guide practice
tic, then, precisely because of this special higher nature, and not at all because
It comes from practice and is developed for its sake. This is a kind of fetish
purism, which can be called “abstract fetishism of knowledge.”

5. The development of the bourgeois world took place in all areas of his creativity, including
including in the field of science, along the path of ever increasing specialization. Science was fragmented
into industries, the number of which was increasing. Their divergence intensified, more and more
‘reducing face-to-face communication between ‘nimgu individualistic separation of people
exacerbated this process, because if specialists in one industry are still
need to mutually share experiences and thoughts, then specialists
different industries are relatively free from such a need. This way science
came to great fragmentation, “similar to the fragmentation of the canital itself”
stic society, and in the same analogy, its development proceeded anarchistically.

The result was that bourgeois science, although it had accumulated in all branches
enormous wealth of material and methods of its development, but could not cite,
it into a harmonious and systematic holistic organization. Each specialty
even created her own special language, incomprehensible even to scientists of other specialties,
not just for the general public. The same relationships and connections of experience, the same
zkemethods of cognition are studied in different branches, as things are completely different
new; The years of some industries penetrate into others with difficulty and with great delay.
Hence the narrow outlook, the guild limitations that developed in people of science
ki, weakening and slowing down creativity.

6. Development of machine production, bringing unity to technical methods,
caused a tendency in science to combine methods, to overcome harmful
sides of specialization. Much has been done in this direction; but the click remains co-.
a real separation of all branches of science from their general, social and labor basis, to
Since then, this tendency can only operate in particulars, but does not lead to.
harmonious and unified organization of science as a whole.

7.’ Bourgeois science is little accessible to the working class and due to its cumbersome nature,
and according to a darkened presentation complicated by a special workshop language, and
also, of course, because, having become capitalist. society as a commodity, she
it fails quickly. When do individual representatives of the proletariat ‘succeed
at the cost of a huge expenditure of effort to master one or another of its branches, then/its class
social character has its influence: its isolation from the collective labor
foundations directs their development towards separation from life, interests and the structure of Thoughts
of the labor collective from which they came, a tendency is added here
to spiritual aristocracy and guild limitations; in a word, like bourgeois
Ideology is its origin; it organizes the soul of the proletarian according to Bur-

zhuaz type. '
22 PROLETARIAN BUTTURE. №2 |

‚ 8. From all this, certain tasks follow for the working class in terms of
but to modern science: a revision of the weight of the proletarian bale of view as
contained, that then ‘form’ from I; 0} 14060 organization as a development
boots ve; and spread among the working masses. In most scientific fields

If the fulfillment of these tasks will mean precisely the systematic receipt of the inheritance
properties of the old world; but, in K, broad and deep independent
new creativity.

9. Soda Science Revisitedneighing must first eliminate its separation
from its collective labor basis: the material ©6’must be understood and illuminated,
as a practical experience of humanity; its diagrams, conclusions, formulas - like tools
organization of all social practices of people. This work of the clatter is carried out almost
exclusively in the social sciences; and it's not organized enough
and, systematically; but it must be extended to all areas of knowledge. Ire-
education will make science vitally close to the working class. Astro-
mia, as a doctrine of the orientation of labor efforts in space and time, -
physics as the science of resistances that collective work encounters
people, - physiology, as the science of labor, - lotics, as the theory of social
coordination of ideas—organizational tools—more immediate, easier and
will enter into the consciousness of the proletariat much better than the same sciences in their current form.

10. At the same time, it is necessary to strive to eliminate that fragmentation
science, which is generated by the course of specialization: towards the unity of the scientific. language, to
bringing together and generalizing the methods of different branches of knowledge and not only among themselves,
but also with the methods of different areas of practice, to the development of complete monism of those and
others. His vision will be the universal organization of science, necessary
the proletariat, as the organizer in the future of all human life, all 06
sides

11. As for the form of presentation of sciences, the task here is not
great simplification without compromising the essence of what is being presented. Lately,
thanks to the work of science democratizers, it became clear how much can be done
in this sense, there is so much unnecessary scholastic point in ordinary presentations -
hundred, how often. repetition of the same thing in adjacent departments under different names

by us. To a large extent, simplification will be achieved by the very revision

science from a collective-labor point of view, which will free science from abstraction
valuable fetishism, giving rise to imaginary questions and unnecessary intricacies,
which includes most of the “evidence”"in old mathematics, mechanics
nick, logic, etc.

19. Revision of science in content along with its transformation in external
form will form its basis—“socialism, adaptation to the tasks of socialist
ical struggle and construction. In accordance with this, it should be organized
the business of disseminating knowledge and scientific work. Both things are inseparable
connected; their life embodiment should be the Workers' University and

.‚Working Encyclopedia.

18. The Workers’ University must represent a system of cultural and educational
corporative institutions, in steps ascending to one center of formation and
organization of scientific forces. In this system, at each level, general education courses
vocatives must be supplemented with special, social ones. practical and
scientific and technical. The fundamental unity of the program / connecting everything
steps. together with their additions, should not push back the freedom to improve
improvement of private programs and 060benio teaching methods. ‚ ,

The main form of relationship between teachers and students should be comradeship
cooperation, in which the competence of the former does not translate into naked auto-
the respect and trust of the latter leads to passivity and lack of criticism. In the teaching itself
In this regard, the main priority should be the assimilation of methods.

14. Development of teaching courses and, in connection with it, literary work
number of ‘scientists’ workers Work. Un. should be directed towards the creation of Ra-
bochey Encyclopedia, which will be not a simple summary of the conclusions of science, but
No. 2 'PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 23

We are waiting for a complete and harmoniously organized presentation of the methods of practice

tics _and cognitions in their life connection. .
A Botdag v.

Proletariat and art.

1. Art can be called universal insofar as
everything valuable in the works of centuries and peoples appears. integral content
the treasury of universal human culture.

2. However, it does not occur to anyone to deny the striking differences
differences in the art of individual eras and peoples.

3. We Marxists know that these differences are aboutare not explained vaguely
concepts: national spirit, century or climate, and by the social system, determined
determined in turn by the relationship of classes,

4. Art is a pure expression of the ideology of one thing or another
class, then tests the cross influence of several classes; but class
logical analysis of a work of art is the most fruitful method of its study.
dovaniya, .

5. Art of the same class is not always the same. Classic
examples of the evolution of class art; embryos, period of aspirations, classic
cism, realism, romanticism of despair, mysticism.

6. Web stages of the evolution of art’ of this class are colored however
less psychology of this particular class,

7. Popyaka ‘characteristics of the future proletarian art, based on
these provisions.

` 8. The independence of proletarian creativity is expressed in originality
is by no means artificial and involves familiarization with all the fruits of the previous
Cabbage soup kulgura. }

9. The intelligentsia is already playing a certain role in the birth of the proletarian

art by the creation of a number of works of a transitional nature..

A. Lunacharsky.

Ideals of socialist education:

th 1. We stand on the eve of a pan-European socialist revolution. Co-

The Golden Republic is on the path to socialism. }
) 2. It is necessary to raise children for the conditions in which they will have to
° live. The modern younger generation will have to live in ‘conditions’
° socialist system, therefore it requires socialist education,
—‹ socialist school,

d. 3. To understand what a socialist evocation should be, it is necessary
understand the essence of socialism and those changes in the forms of social life and psycho-
ologies that the special implementation of socialism will entail. › Threat
‚ ‚ 4. The economic foundations of socialism are reduced to the following principles:
a) private ownership of the means of production is abolished, they become
public property; 6) production is organized systematically based on
accurate accounting of needs; c) producecash products are distributed among
by all members of the community on the basis of equality.

\

‚

24 ‚ PROLETARIAN CULTURE: No. 2

5. The implementation of these economic principles in life leads to the destruction of
division into the exploited and the exploited, the rich and the poor, this, with its
On the other hand, it leads to a deepening of the idea of equality and its implementation. And the embodiment
its implementation means the same right to receive products, equally
equal labor service, equal right to knowledge, equal right to
area, political rights.

For the school this means that the modern Class school must be
replaced by a single school, opening equal access to knowledge for everyone,
caring about the development of all the physical and mental strength of each child.

This means that instead of those imaginary ones; falsified knowledge that
gives a modern school, it will give the most valuable thing that has become a property
human mind. b

This means that the school will not give only book knowledge, but will
the child is equally inclined to both mental and physical labor; will she? connection
bring these two elements of labor together, fall asleep. hitherto existed between
they are an abyss.

This means that the school will be a self-governing community where children will
learn to live together without offending each other, arranging life so that we can
it was good.

6. Cancellation of private. conditions for the production environment, systematic
accounting-based production will put an end to the economic struggle for
existence within society; a person will stop seeing each other as a person
century of his competitor, but he will see a person; self-interested instincts
dividing people will weaken, human solidarity will prevail.

Therefore, in the field of education, the goal will be preparation not for re-
the child in the future would be able to make his own way, climb the social ladder,
and instilling in students feelings of strong solidarity. Family education,
Solo education, to the extent that it still has a place, must give waypublic perception. Joint chewing, joint collective
work, games, the organization of all school life should develop social
the inetincts of children, helping them were poured out. into certain forms.

7. The fact that children are the future masters of life requires that they be prepared for this
dominance not in words, but in deeds. A child should not rush to any
one narrow specialty, he must be able to do all kinds of work in order
apply to rapidly changing technological conditions. Not professional
and polytechnic education should occupy a wide place in the school. child
must learn not to diligently do what they tell you to do, but to learn how to communicate
to integrate your work with the general work, with all production as a whole, to understand each other
and the dependence of his work on the work of the team, he must learn to be one-
temporarily both performer and organizer in production, This should be taught
labor, polytechnic school.

5. Engels defined socialism as “a leap from the kingdom of necessity into
kingdom of freedom." Socialism will destroy all those paths that connected development
the personalities of millions of working masses. Socialism will raise the human spirit to unprecedented levels
I like the height. A socialist school must be a free school, providing

side of the child's individuality, she must create an environment in which she could \

comprehensively develop and reveal the child’s personality, school duty, give shi-
great scope for his free creativity.
`

N. Ulyanova (N. Krupskaya).
bla o In battle she la anna > O bietnnea bb

№2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE: 25

All-Russian Conference of Proletarian Cultural-Enlightenment
The official organization will take place between August 15 and September 1.

The following organizations are sending representatives to the conference:

“Proletkult” (Independent workers of the K.-Pr. Organizations).

K.-Pr. Department of Factory Committees.

K.-Pr. Department of Trade Unions.

K.-Pr. Workers' Cooperation Department. `

K.-Pr. Department of the Councils of Deputies of cities and large centers with a population of at least
20 thousand. ; .Representation norm: organizations up to 5 thousand send 1 delegate; from
5 to 10 thousand—2 delegates; from 10 to 25 thousand—8 delegates; then for every 25 thousand
1 delegate. Small organizations are merging.

Organizing Bureau for the convocation of the All-Russian Federation. Conf. Flight. K.-Pr. Organization-
tions sends 8 providers.

Editorial board of the magazine “Proletatskaya Kultura”—2 representatives.

Department of independent proletarians. crops k. ‘organizations under Nar
Com. Enlightenment—2 representatives.

V. Ts. I. K. Oovdepov—2 representatives.

Socialist central committees. parties standing on the platform of the Soviet /
authorities - 2 representatives each.

All-Russian Advice from Prof. Unions—@ suppliers.

Workers' Cooperation Council—2 providers.

Railway "Tsekult"—2 distributors.

Individuals are invited by decision of the Organization. Bureau. ‘

Comrades! Get ready for the conference, choose a delegate
For all matters related to convening a conference, please contact:
Org. Bureau: Moscow, Vozdvizhenka, 16, Tel. 4-42-20.

Chairman V. Polyaneky.
Secretary F. Kalinin.
"PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 2

Iron (pession.

Here he is, the conqueror, the ruler of the earth,
Lord of the titanic forces,

In the noise of countless steel machines,
In the radiance of electric suns.
They thought he would appear in starry robes,
In the halo of divine mystery,

And he came to us in a gray haze
From factories, suburban waterways.

“We thought!” he would appear in splendor and glory
Meek, blissfully gentle,

And he, like deflated lava,
The many-faced one has come. rebellious

Here he is walking across the abyss of the seas
Steel, inexorably swift,
Sparks are thrown by rebellious ideas,
The flame streams cleansingly.

Where his imperious cry will ring,
Subsoil. earthly ones are revealed,

The mountains part before him in an instant,
The poles of the world are moving closer together.

Where it goes - it leaves a trace
Noisy iron lines

He brings joy and light to everyone,
Plants flowers in the desert. \ ‚ .

Brings new salt to the world,

Destroys thrones, dungeons,

Calling peoples to eternal brotherhood, I
It wipes away features and traits. at

This scarlet sign is a symbol of struggle,
A beacon of salvation for the oppressed,
© we will overcome the yoke of judgmentBy the way, I'
° We will conquer a captivating paradise.
Vladimir Kirillo.

No. 2

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. .

Funeral.

}
A boundless ocean of naked heads,
Doubts are crushed by a seething stream... `
Sea. flowers... |
Venkov...
Posters, posters...
They strive for unconscious heights. hearts,
The human waves are inexorable...
On the scarlet flags: fight to the end,
Glory to the fallen heroes.

They leave, the Red Army enters,

The continuity of iron tents is growing.

That's the Army of Eternal Freedom, |

Armies of the coming centuries.

Flags flutter on steel bayonets,

Revolutionary power in close ranks.
th

In the music of an unshakable order, Y

The army honors the memory of the hero. :

The hero's coffin is carried in their arms,

The coffin was drowned in flowers.

Above him is the crimson of rustling banners,
Continuity of human columns,
The solemnity of the many-faced masses...
The tribune is burying the working class.

There is suffering on people's faces,

Their gaze shines like a blade, a dagger.

The palaces, cathedrals and buildings are silent.
They are silent, silent...

The dials on the clock towers sparkle bloody,
The watch drops with careful ringing.
Columns of people in the gray fog...

Flowers, wreaths, posters...

Tired gazes, sharpened by sadness, shine,
Powerful breasts are grabbed by hot horror,
But people are burned together with indivisible steel,
Somewhere the thunder of guns roars...
Everyone flinched at the sounds of the choir,
The heart beats with a new rhythm, `
In new feelings, the masses retreat behind them...
And the echo conveys: the fight to the end.

\`To, victories, to victories.

$

At these sounds the bayonets closed tighter,
A long bell rang somewhere...

Banners, banners, wreaths

Unions, Unions, Councils, Councils...

27
28

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. No. 2
at
The sadness in our hearts is relieved,
The chest is squeezed in a vice,
But everything is radiant, unusual, light,
The ordinary has shrunk and gone somewhere. ”

Streets, squares, houses, shops,

Voe kitsit in the folk abyss,

Everything was drowned in multimillion-dollar noise,
Everything was forgotten in the ignorant thought.

Everything burned in cyclones of aspiration,
Everything was flickering in the fire of achievement,
Erasing the madness of crazy beliefs,
Overthrowing the strongholds of the law,

Windows and doors opened in the houses.
They are getting dark from oursenemies balconies.
They are afraid of the wave of popular rejoicing,
Robkis' souls are seized with fear,

International. >
At the crossroads the speaker

Iron pours in the chest of words.

“Somewhere the Marseillaise is thundering.

Every step sounds like a sharp moment.

Someone raised the flag:

They are singing something, sweat... / 7;
Fireworks, fireworks, fireworks.

In deep silence at the bend ‘the streets froze
Cabs, cars.
The banners bowed... Worz was buried,
Eternal hustle,

Alexander Pomorsky.
„No. 2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. 29

Miracles of work.

It's collapsing, it's falling... the world.
Let's look into the past and throw:
I deny! . }
Millions of eyes to the future and loudly, with all voices:
I'm building!
- We're at work. ,
“We’ll give a human line of ‘010 miles’ to the thefts of the Urals.
`Let's go like a steel mass through the mines of Wales.
Let us ring out the iron anthem under the arches of the Rhine factories.
Transevaalians, to the mountains!
Chicago mechanics, you have completed the construction of the monstrous Diya Canal Bridge.
Run a train across it, and the bridge will play like a harp.
And then a cheerful march to the meeting, to the world meeting.
To the Archery Square of Europe.
To God, gasping for breath, +
! And strike in chorus: people, whistles, furnaces bubbling, stone dams singing.
- Leave it alone! Learn to stop your hubbub in an instant.
And hands up, mechanic workers.
Rafters are created at the pole. Above the mountains.
There are wizards...
In summer there are no nights at the pole, black And in the blue light they play ‘as if
ghosts follow the sky and stand like a black mirage over the hot Sahara.
Stronger...Stronger to the rafters! „
Let's break!
Let's smoke!
Let's temper! | :
- This. what? \
- The house is on top, the column is on the column, the gate is on the gate. Above the sky, to the stars.

`

| - Are these mines?

- Until the lavas, until the hottest madness of the earth... by swarming!

- Princely city... Crowds of palaces...

Take them down immediately! According to our plans, there is an alley with cherry trees
gardens on the sides... Across all of Europe. A walk across the mainland would not be bad for
tired.

— Are there swamps?

- We have no time for jokes: dig them up, drain them, install blast furnaces, the foundation of the forest:

- What a strange thing: there is an unlined embankment, a railway:

- Give her a hundred miles,

But more quietly—a sacred moment: we put on our workwhose blouses.

Let's hum to the whole world at once.

And we strike instantly./ 1

Is there dynamite everywhere under the wretched workshops?

- Explode fearlessly.

Bury with them the rotten cities filled with smoke and noise, *
| . C X

30 ' PROLETARIAN CULTURE. I

And then collect all the best monster factories, bubbling blast furnaces, brave
bridges, calling cranes, immense buildings, collect them on stone, on
iron rally. | y -

And a thousand miles long,

in ©that’s a verst in width,

scandalously huge super-colossus

Let's build a factory.

World Joyful Congress of Workers.

Ov himself is stunned by himself.

Here it is, it has grown, it has been built. }

He is in smoke: the hot and familiar stench of his underground heart is already intoxicating his dear
Lyons,

Whole Thousands run out of the workshops to look at the central roofs:

“Demon! We want the devil of strength and pressure

Naive youth, incited by the songs of labor, wanted sports, work,
cov.

The roof collapsed...

From the depths of the forges, gray concrete poured with water rose,
they reaped and filled the entire living million of the plant with muscle tissue.

- Shatunov, rods for us immediately! the front youth were ceremonious.

. - Otolnykh! We want to surrender to these moments.

- Strength and inspiration!

A titanium crankshaft flashed through the air and with it bright, steel-filled
bluish blood on the connecting rods.

They went berserk and filled the vaults, courtyards and tunnels with a fiery whisper.
water.

The crowd froze, and then suddenly shouted madly:

- That's it,

\ And pressure,

And the blow

And rise.

Everything human and as a reward, as a prize and as a soul...

To you, ]

Connecting rods. .

The crowd was arriving

Even the GMs with hard, demanding work felt the triumph,

- Passion! Unbridled passion!

We're not saints, are we? take it.

A grimy and sweaty uncle rose from the edge of the crowd and shouted in a hoarse voice
crowd:

Once upon a time I am a delegate from there.

Some of the audience laughed. These were eccentric laborers,

working on carriers inside the yard.

- Don't make any noise. Come here.

The gates of the steel workshops opened with a roar and crashed into the walls.
Melting and heating furnaces roared like fairy tales.giants.
Oil swirled in the mouths of the exploding feks and burst into flame-filled

oven and seemed to be eating itself.

The master waved his hand, the oven door opened, the mass shied away from the heat
and light,

She. I didn’t look, I was tormented, I was struggling in the hot bursts of airy lava,

You can’t do anything in the hellish noise, but the muscles of Lutz Mtesvevko played alone
and the same words for the whole tromad:

Burn, melt, kill, destroy!

- Prayers! Prayers! The frenzied crowd shouted and in a solemn chorus
headed to the spacious and miraculously high boiler workshops. .

No. 2 PROLETARIAN CULTURE. WE

On the way, the crowds were met by nihilistic preachers:
and ‘have you really believed in God again?

- Chenukha; we-loving idolaters; we wanted to worship and chant
created by us.

They entered the boiler workshops.

The noise of people's scattered conversation under the black arches is a thousand beats
on iron rods.

All the lights were turned off except the top two.

And immediately it’s quiet.

The gloomy solemnity of the columns.

Black spread shadows.

Alarmed strict swallers and beams:

Not a word of command, not a sound of calling.

Tolia bowed before the cold city of iron,

And there were forests

And there was joy.

A. Gastev.
32

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

’ Chronicle of Proletkult.

Second Petrogradskaya _Koncheren-
tion of the proletarians Cultural-
Educational Organizations.

(5-9E]June 918)

Petrograd "Proletkult" lives more than
intense life than all other apalo-
gical institutions. He already managed to convene
two conferences at which it was possible to
neck or less distinctly fasten
basic theoretical principles and con-
clearly outline the current, organizational
and practical work.

The Petrograd proletariat is aware of all
the importance and enormity of what the worker took
class of work to identify the proletarian
culture and the development of its individual issues
owls; however, it also comes off in separate
cases from living reality and gender
the great creative forces do not measure up
them with those available at the moment
obstacles, inevitably followsthose from
throughout our economic and political system
situations.

Life, of course, will make its own adjustments
into these plans for the new movement and will direct
work in the right direction. Now "Pro-
letcults" are just being born, only
are still determining their place and role in history
ries, and all sorts of mistakes, naturally, are inescapable.
safe,

The general resolution, adopted unanimously,
shows that the working class is red
Petrograd in general sees quite clearly
before us are the tasks of revolutionary cultural
no work. Brighter than at the first conference
tion she emphasizes that “the proletarian
culture, expressing the internal content
the desire of the new creator of life—the proletariat—
and its ultimate ideal—socialism, in the future
in its earliest development can be built
only through independent efforts of the same
proletariat, faithful to its class causes,
dachas and who perceives life in strict
in accordance with these objectives."

This idea is clearly emphasized in other
that resolution, which states “that the lit-
cultural works of proletarian writers
tels and poets, in which artistically
reflected the revolutionary struggle for the organization
development of life on socialist principles,
class psyche of revolutionary prole-
Tariat and its individual representatives,
is our class value and is
contribution to the revolutionary pro-
letariat its ‘proletarian culture’.

Let us note in passing the appeal about
so that proletarian writers and poets are not about
gave their works to bourgeois
magazines and private publishing houses. This is important:
it is necessary to unite all the creativity of
letariat, so as not to get lost among strangers
not a single grain of value in your hands.

Others are poorly and imprecisely formulated
the place of this resolution, which states,
“that proletarian culture, having created the form
new state organization—Power

Advice, provides interests, like spirits
financial and economic workers of all
the world is therefore a culture
pan-human."

From these words the reader may think that
proletarian culture already exists, that it
I was already able to create a new format the management
nia——Soviet Power. This is not true. Prole-
There is no Tara culture yet. Only now
the opportunity to gather and unite opens up
scattered and insufficiently designed
its small elements - only now it is new
the form of the labor movement is gaining its
rights. Soviet power is the result of
advantage of political struggle, and in
in her daily work she is cruel
fights petty-bourgeois psychology
the broad masses of the revolutionary people, still
who have not comprehended the full scope of all existence
ity of the coup. The compilers do not distinguish
revolution and what is in the development of the new
culture has two aspects; first when
proletarian culture is sharply 0bo0ob-
class character, the second one,
when it becomes universal. By
this issue was written by A. Lunachar-
a whole brochure entitled: “Kul-
tour is class and universal."

It is wrong for the conference to call for pro-
tariat to the struggle for the organization of a pro-
Letarian culture is based on such principles that
he was the ideological leader of this
affairs of public education and upbringing.

The Proletkult Center, of course, needs
dim, and it will be created in the All-Russian con-
interference and will be autonomous. But it's unlikely
this center will have to fight for its
ideological hegemony. There is no doubt that
Letarian power will hasten to use
everything valuable that the proletariat manages to create in
their depths. We’ve got to have one for now
care that power every day everything
large and larger and exclusively concentrated
sharpened in the hands of the revolutionary pro-
letariat, and proletarian culture created
evolved and developed, There is no need to
rush to grab the big ones in your hands
cultural institutions. It will come on its own
if Proletkults manage to resolve the possibility
the difficult task placed upon them by history.
® But this is a matter of the future and not even close.

A very important point (theoretically,
Of course, in practice this will still take a long time to come to fruition.
The essence of the resolution is the idea to create
international "Proletkult".

Regarding the broad free rightfor training in all institutions "Prolet-
cult" and free access to all
acceptance of cultural and educational character
ter, it is unlikely that this will be possible
now, in a time of financial crisis.

Some adjustments to these shortcomings
the couple submits a resolution on the club's
business. It has more of a historical perspective
tives and chronological sequence.
It states that the Central Social
listicheskiy, Club at "Proletkult" and

No. 2

"Proletkult" are natural and non-
inevitable crowning of all amateur
cultural and educational activities
Petrograd proletariat, beginning” ©
1905 before the Great Russian Revolution
tions and during the revolutionary period, experiencing
washed by us."

Comrade Shlyakhov is in a hurry to liquidate the
to establish the Academy of Sciences. It is true that she is a child
bourgeois society that it's time
related diseases, but she still
we need it and have nothing to buy it at the moment -
change. The proletariat does not have sufficient
a large number of scientific and technical
forces, Proposal of comrade. Shlyakhova sins because
the same as the general resolution: he believes
that proletarian science is already evident; actually
In reality, the struggle for it is just underway; until now
since the proletariat was able to impose its ideas
significant imprint only on the social sciences
political-economic,

More complete and clearer than at the 1st ‘conference ^

edited theses of Comrade Ignatov about the pro-
Letharsky Theater This time definitely
it is clearly stated that “proletarian theaters
are seen as a powerful tool in
the struggle for the organization of life according to the will of the worker
of the ‘proletariat and as a means deeply
socialist education of the masses."

“Art for art’s sake”, i.e. bourgeois-
the art of fun, the finest entertainment
niya, woven from languid sighs, sick
and blind searches, from selfish desires
and varied passions, cannot have
places in the theater of the working proletariat."

Based on these principles, the author of theses
outlines the repertoire of the workers' theater. He
indicates that plays should be staged
awakening creativity among the massesenergy,
joyful perception of life, cheerfulness in
struggle for a socialist future. Pro-
Letarian theaters must glorify the creative
hard work’ of a human creator and beauty
socialist future,

Regarding the repertoire of the bourgeois theater,
the author’ says the following in his theses:

“From the repertoire of classical plays, everyday life
vykh, art plays and from artistic
but valuable plays in general, in the repertoire of
Letarian theaters can only enter those
plays that do not go against class
tasks of the proletariat and do not subvert the visual
body into sadness and despondency.”

We think that Comrade. Ignatov not really
accurately formulated his thoughts. Really
He thinks that on the proletarian stage there is no
should stage “The Inspector General”, “The Stingy Ry-
Tsar”, “Woe from Wit”, etc.?.. But that’s all
such plays that inspire not only
melancholy and despondency for our past, but horror
for the people who lived then. We believe that
from the bourgeois repertoire the proletariat must
wives take everything that is more or less thin
paints truthfully in a feminine form
him | the past and gives him the opportunity
understand and appreciate the past.

Despite some inaccuracy and non-
clarity in the wording of individual terms
marriages and reflected in the resolutions of children
Chinese fear of the young movement, the latest,
undoubtedly indicate the growth of Petro-
Gradsky "Proletkultau.

Proletarian Culture, No. 2.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

33

We deliberately stopped excluding...
specifically on theoretical issues, leaving
aside the solution of practical issues.
The decision of the latter affected, on the one hand
hand, the desire to post as widely as possible
work without taking into account existing resources
opportunities, on the other hand, are insufficient
‚sharp attention to individual very
important aspects of daily work. But
0b this will be discussed in detail at
All-Russian conference:

The second conference, like the first, was
I walked with great enthusiasm.

p.l.

In the province.

Comrade; ‘talking about the beginnings of Ki-
Zilevo Council in the Urals in the field of culture
tour construction, says: “Ignorantand
will not weave bast shoes. I still remember the time
not so long ago past. Sitting on a bench
old man and studying, what made him
go here? He wanted to better understand his surroundings.
world, it is better to develop your circle
Dawns set your worldview more broadly, -
and to me, the young man sitting next to me, `
never forget this. I made a vow to myself
that I will study all my life, will they
-l courses or home education, not
no matter what, I will go to my cherished goal.”
But what goals does the ra-
Bochy, is it simple ‘assimilation of what already exists?
existing culture, or its creativity
new forms? Here opinions are shared. In speeches
at the opening of the Rostokinsky workers' university
university in Moscow indicated. necessary
difficulty of consolidating the cultural revolution
work, that the culture that was previously pre-
the status of only the bourgeoisie, becomes
by the standing of the iroletariat, Here we see
educational purposes only. Otherwise, already
about the creative tasks facing the work-
chimi, says a comrade from the Kizilevsky Co-
veta; "Now; when we ourselves have to
create and create new forms of life,
we need to learn. We'll see how
life is beautiful, let’s learn the secrets of the world,
liberated from the oppression of want and ignorance;
new talents will emerge from our midst,
armed fighters. So, comrades, yes
Long live the light of knowledge, let us go hand in hand
and we will learn." About the creative tasks of the state
The Penza Council of Professionals also says
unions in their invitation to co-
battle to unite the entire cultural
work of workers in Penza: “Otherwise (without knowing)
ny’ and culture) we ourselves will destroy everything for-
wars that we have received so dearly. A
objectives are to create new and better
forms of hostel." Creation of artistic
no studio comrades in Vladimir are trying
combine both of these tasks. ^^

This is the setting of this work. "In the big
children and adults gather in the room; ie chuz-
following the teacher's pointers, freely, easily
express their thoughts ‘on canvas, on paper,
in colors, trying to capture the beautiful,
clean.. Numerous models are simple,
haharmonious ones are scattered everywhere, and stucco
dents draw whatever they want: Pe-
spots in another room, and especially de-
the little ones are trying. Mushrooms, pots, goats,

3
34

lions clumsily come out of their hands, but
love for art is visible, imperceptibly directed
taught by experienced teachers; she
will find a way for technology to manifest its
feelings. It's free there, and that's what matters most
There poletarians can ‘implement’ their
thoughts about fields, factories and tall chimneys,
absorbed into their blood.” But this, alas, is rare
while dating.

Typically we see such a picture.
After the grand opening or whatever it is
was in Kozlov, after a whole series of celebrations,
related to the established railway
kami two days of enlightenment are coming
weekdays. It’s also interesting right there in passing from-
meggit, who is the organizer of the but-
new cultural forms. Usually about the village
instructions follow on the role of the returnees
from the front; only in one case did we find
an indication of the organization of a circle under the leadership of
leadership of a rural teacher. Hey, everyday life
with a continuous ebb of members and visitors
cause confusion and often indignation
exclamations. So the young proletarian in Petro-
city under the characteristic title “For
Why did they choose you?” protests against
lack of work from the ‘cultural side’
commission and ends: “Shame on you, comrades!
they don’t do that!” Penza professional
unions, with whose appeal we are familiar
were above, complaining about the pro-
Denmark And this complaint goes everywhere. Sometimes,
on rare occasions the old element collides
and interferes with work; so, in Dipovka Morshan-
skogo u. “They put brakes on the way of work,
Partly out of unconsciousness, partly on purpose,
calling it religious depravity.” B
Matov, Kostroma city against the pop circle
and fists: they say anarchism and crushing
faith." But the ebb of listeners is a fact, and it
necessary. try to explain. We believe
that everything here is that we work
we melt with old templates purely enlightening
body work. And only where the workers
involved in active work when this
the work is put toabout the listeners, it turns out
good . results. Activity is the “in-
about life’ and for purely educational
work. Look at the class hours
'predestvennaya or. theater studio Mo-
Skovsky Proletkult. How much life
movements that are written on all faces
excitement and serious creative attitude

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

No. 2
nie, Here’s another example of Bogorodsky Uezd-
of the University: the organizers based their
work put an active method, and the result
taty is obvious, the audience was growing all the time,
and did not melt, which is what we usually see.

On our pages we are very happy to
mark this transition from passive perception
to creativity. Here a huge role should be played
play your press organs. Every worker
whose university should have its own body,
on the pages of which ‘would be discussed
academic life of the new studio pro-
Tara creativity.

We see the reason for the failure of lectures in their
isolation from life. That's why it's like that
all technical ‘and’ special-
new courses. Such technical courses are
metal workers and textile workers built in Moscow,
Goujons; Astrakhan comrades-listeners
evening technical courses are even published
its own magazine - “Technician-Worker”.

All this forces us to share what we get,
develop together new methods, and
we see this as one of the main tasks of uniting
opinions of our Proletkults. They are built
the work continues: the association of co-
created by the labors of the mint unions
in Penza, in distant Kem, opens
division of Proletkult. There were congresses in Iva-
new, in Smolensk to create provincial
and regional centers, in the latter case—
Proletkult of the Western Region. For autumn on-
a conference in St. Petersburg is planned to create
Northern Proletkult. Petrograd to-
comrades are already dreaming about the International
Proletkult, at the head of which after the con-
progress should become IA RONKIE advice
proletarian culture. All these facts
talk about a conscious cultural task
modern times are still only a few, and from
the activity of workers will depend on it
propaganda. You just have to always remember that
nod a lying stone and the water does not flow, and
be afraid of mistakes. With comradely criticism
and they are not afraid of help.

At the end of our review, we
We are sorry to all the rick of the proletarian
culture © please let us know about your
work, not embarrassed by the form and ‘addressing the self-
my main focus is on how it is carried out,
cultural endeavors into life and how much
they involve the active participation of broad
workers mays,

‚ Art. Krivtsov,

Bibliography.

Literary Almanac. Edition "Pro-
letkult". Petrograd, 1918

The Almanac we received, in which
collected the best works of Petrograd-
workers' writers and poets, groupies
hustling around the magazine “The Future”, about
gives a very good impression. Composition
it is written in quite a variety of ways and is readable
with great interest, although there are no new ones in it

topics and new motives that we would not

‘
met at the Almanac staff. earlier. It feels like... presented to the court
the reader's things were written at different times;
some before the revolution, and others very recently
ny days. Dates should be set so that
criticism could more easily find out what it contributed
new to workers' poetry, our revolution, -
what moods and thoughts went into the area
past and will no longer disturb and worry
the heart of a poet, who were born in creativity
`
No. 2

in a more destructive whirlwind of events, as if
ments of the new working psyche. |

The first part of the "Almanac", in which
brane. poetry begins. poem
V. Kirillova: “We.” It was talked about
in detail in No. 1 of our magazine. Strong,
bright it is full of deep, active, complete
enthusiastic belief in the power of collective work,
into the beauty of the life to come. Spirit of revolution
hovers over every stanza, over every environment
together: y

“We are free, we breathe OTHER

beauty"...
“We will fill the honeycombs to the top with wonderful honey,
On our planet we will find another, blinding
telial path,
We love life, its violent delight is intoxicating

we are brave

Rotting,

Through a terrible struggle, suffering, our spirit is
calen—

Everything is Us, in everything we are; We are flame and light
victorious."

These motives are more or lessby our strength,
depending on the time of writing, resulted in
other poetic things. The authors are not only
state the bleakness of life for them
in bourgeois society, but they also see a way out
to a bright future. They live by it. For
they are fighting him.

Original Poem; "Life" is about
empty of moods, of the past. It doesn't have
turbulent force of struggle, but rather ‘feels
a touch of sadness and contemplative hope for
future. It is possible that the poem is
written back in the pre-revolutionary period.
The poet, in the “angry roar of cars,” “overheard
a call to new life,” and “in the vaults
gloomy" predicted "the birth of many
squads of thousands." The poet was not mistaken.

“And in my cramped closet,
Every day, in the evenings,
A wonderful world is blooming
A bright temple of free life,”

the poet consoled himself after the painful
working day at the factory, Now this "world
wonderful" blooms not only in the closet
and thoughts, but everywhere around us and blooming
tet brightly if we turn out to be skillful and up-to-
steadfast masters of life. And be like that
we must and we will. "Mighty Samson"
just hiding and waiting by the high columns,
full of anger, as N. Otsoli writes, he is already
affirms new life, and “your work will be
dark-stern on a magnificent holiday transforms
growls, in the vastness of the fields, in the boundless fields,
her red flowers."

There are more poems in the collection
S. Efremova (Goremyka), untimely death
She's at the front. They are inspired by the soldier's
combat life; the main motive is their poet
expressed in the following paragraphs:

"And exhausted people wander
With an eerie look of bottomless melancholy,”

The poet had a presentiment of his death, his strength
weakened, the motives for the struggle were inferior to the state
hopelessness:

C
“Let us sleep quietly in the snowdrifts!
Let the steepness not spread like fog
And it doesn’t press on a soldier’s chest.”...

PROLETARIAN CULTURE. r

35

This is his last wish.
Other things are also brightly written: “Blizzard”
A. Kraisky and “Sorochina” by Tikhomirov.

The latter has a rustic feel
buildings,

All the poems placed in Sorcica
they talk about the talent of poets, about the skill
embody their thoughts inimages and construction
musical beautiful verses, although not
new in its form, but far superior
drawing some of the ascended poets from
bourgeoisie. We must not forget that some
of the Almanac participants are illiterate
and their social position: house keeper.

As for the second part of “Amanakh -
prose, then it is not. I feel all the spirit
revolution, even those new ones are not visible at all
the devil in the working psyche, who are stupid
they ate side roots even in the pre-revolutionary period
tion period. Topics taken from distant
from our ‘days of life and moods, but this
it does not hurt to assert that the presented
things are done artistically, truthfully.
In first place should be put “Childhood
Kuzki" P. Bessalko. Beautiful, , Lively
and imaginative, but without any frills
indicates undeniable talent
author. But schematism, › which is strongly
affected in “Catastrophe,” and is also evident in “Children’s
state of Kuzka." Thanks to him. turn out
reticence, incompleteness of the image, psycho-
logical leaps and even contradictions"
the work as a whole, despite. your
value still has nothing unfinished,
not fully matured. You should not rush
Please hurry up and print your things. Oh oh
will have to regret it. future to the author himself.

The story by M. Yu4 is written vividly and freely
Kina-Dosova - “The Master is Away”; Hero of the race
the tale of the worker Gnutkin, for whom’ “enough
for sure ‘it was strict, to look so that he would
trembled and shrank,” an informer on all commodities
rich man, dancing in front of the master, so that... to-
fight for an extra nickel’ to’ wages,
invites to visit ‹ the master of his
plant Having gotten tipsy, he betrays his comrades
soup in their everyday and petty struggle with ma-
sterom, Master. from pleasure - reprisals
to his enemies—rubs his hands, praises
Gnutkin’ and promises to give him more. whole
two hryvnia. Flattered Gnutkin became
he fights even more. He’ calls his
children and to please the master. makes them sing
and dance; when 'those' refuse
and cry, beats them and furiously scolds them. Not-
expectedly in a drunken Gnutkin Ave.crumbles

human dignity, he is in pain
the heart is aware of the vileness of the network of its consumption
niya and kicks him out. the neck of the invitee
masters

“I wanted a good life, something like this... So that
with the sun... I'm a human too... I'm tired of it
kennel... I'm tired of the Ilevki, that's it...

He sat down and looked at the table for no reason
and, sighing heavily, added: “

- N.-n-yes... I wanted to get better, but I didn’t
hit the right note, - on. took distortions...

Then he locked the room, sat down at the table,
thought, drank, swore, banged on the table
com and cried." } . }

3*
36 PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

The story of N. Dap-
Tina: “Mother’s brood.” It is written beautifully
gray, juicy. But both the topic itself and its development
work and style taken from an alien prolet-
riltu, class. Takes a toll on the author
influence of Boris Zaitsev. The sooner it
the influence will be spent the sooner the author
finds his way, the sooner he will be able to follow
to mark in the working environment something deeply intimate,
what eludes other authors, singers
struggle and new life, and consolidate this new
in one artistic form or another,

K. Timiryazev. Red name: ' Ed. "Pa-
rus", Shtg. 1918 Price 1 rub.

The brochure was written by the person to whom.

already" 75 children. Merciless, cruel time
tightly threw its chains over his body, and
after all, the pages of Peitchi are full of young people,
bright, genuine enthusiasm, genuine
cherished faith in the victory and triumph of our
bountiful labor and the Beautiful Banner, symbol
brotherhood of peoples.

The author is one of those “advanced”. demo
croatia, which after the October riot
the dew began to sabotage the people, I found in myself
enough courage to decisively
take sides without any hesitation
labor democracy, the proletariat and the cre-
Tsunacy. Always sensitive to her needs, he
managed to navigate among the raging
our political passions. revolutions,
managed to break away from people of his position,
to think and suffer together with the revolutionary
tion avant-garde. g

The author is not afraid of “what he will say”...
no, reader, “not Princess Marya Alekseevna,
and Prince Peg himselfr Alekseevich" (Krapotkin).
He passionately fights with the ideologists of war, with
opponents of the Coasal Banner.

Addressing various kinds of imperialists -
socialists and simply democrats, K. Timi-
Ryazev strikes them to the very heart; He writes:
“You, our strict judges, also have courage
express your thoughts also to the end.
Say frankly: give
still several million people... Give me
us to transfer billions from the sums of workers
billionaires buying into bags of gold or
into the coffers of their billion-dollar syndicates. Give me
to establish the kingdom of gold and lies, iron
"And blood."

Full of moral strength, before the astonishment

he throws fiery fire at his enemies
call to the nations: “Rise up, O peoples, and support
consider your own oppressors, snatch them from
the hands brazenly taken from you, the most sacred
your rights."
- He brands both Sir Edward Gray and Lloyd-
Durge and Rodzianko and Malyukov, and Keren-
sky for his treacherous unloading of Isetro-
hail and criminal attack on June 18th
1917 and many others, Yugo's mind cannot be tolerated
with the situation that the ruling classes
they kill the peoples and turn their blood into
lotto, He stigmatizes unworthy comedy
Moscow. meetings, united parliament,
which he ironically calls Bulyginsky,
ridicules the “legitimate successor” government
coalition government and recognizes
the inevitability of the October revolution,

we're fucked.

No. 2

The Red Banner calls him to itself: “Only
monochrome and precisely the Red Banner up to
has so far signaled something terrible for
of all enemies of democracy, the unity of the democrats
ty of the whole world." "The champions of order, for-
defenders of the church and state drowned more than once
in its blood, it itself was only defending itself
and called the person invariably forward. Not
death, and death brings with it this Red
Banner." With deep love. remembers av-
tor those moments of his life when he saw
this is the Red Banner under a bright, glamorous
the sky of Igalia, in the world capital of Paris and,
finally, in Moscow “on an eternally memorable day
May 1, 1917"

Based on a number of experimental data, the scientist-citizen
nin comes to the conclusion that out of all will
radiantsolar energy, red waves
has the greatest efficiency;
exactly "they produce that chemical
work in the plant, thanks to which the
reveals the possibility of life on earth.” &

“And isn’t it worthy of surprise,” he writes,
that, having realized for the first time his creative power
in the process of building future destinies
of humanity, the working masses chose the 'sim-
the ox of this power is precisely the same red
color", "chosen by world democracy em-
the problem of your creative power in creation
future society." “He will serve
forever the emblem of the unity of democracies of all
peace and. a symbol of unity ‘between power
the sign and power of labor"

Political thought is not always, of course,
expressed as precisely as we would like,
but this does not in the least detract from our warmly recommended
Mendovat brochure K. A, Timiryazev. Ve
every working library should have,
Every worker should read it. It's a pity
only that it was published too expensively, even
according to modern standards. But this is to blame
of course, publishing house, A. 0.

Izvestia of the Moscow Proletarek
University. _Journal of weekly journal No. 1.
July 1, 1918. 2 pages large format,

u.

How does the working class stand out sharply among
modern society? The spirit of his class
owl solidarity, And what do we see in Bur-
zhuaz environment? Just the opposite phenomenon:
constant personal performance contrary to in-
tores in common. Political party pro-
letariat is proud of its iron discipline
plina with the greatest self-criticism, and
the bourgeoisie, conversely, hates constraint
individual party discipline and one-
temporarily with this cannot stand any self-
koitiki. Ash thoughts came to our minds
Take a look at the above magazine.

On our pages we try our best
cleanly notice, identify and combine
elements of a new work culture and post-
twist these still timid shoots into favorable
new conditions, but give out your constructions
for proletarian culture or something else
it’s worse to “help” workers in developing the fundamentals
we don't think of her. Creativity of cultural
forms and dots are always hidden, in hiding places
team. Pzavda, inshe appears through
individual providers of this class,
but you cannot create a culture from the outside.

`
No. 2

Such a thought would be typical of bourgeois
esoteric fiction,

We must sadly admit,
that a group of Moscow teachers led by
< Paushkin,) a group of pure intellectuals
<kaya, takes upon herself the courage to “work out
"proletarian ideal" and "create a culture
class." Mistakes of your thoughts, @not yet-
freed from bourgeois influences,
They are exhibited under the name. proletarian-
“Whose culture. When printed
grams were submitted for viewing lek-
Tor's Collegium M.S.R. D., then she is the only
tlasno reacted to them in the most negative way -
differently and required a complete re-
fabricate them. When’ 1.500 people-fly-
ries attracted by the very name of the university
“Heta, we signed up for university, and it’s time
time of its opening, one thing became clear
a curious phenomenon.” And there are listeners
and there are programs, ‘and even some, only
‘there are no lecturers, And now lecturer M.S.R.D. re-
zili come to the aid of workers and steel
‘read your lectures and... already, of course, by
<your programs,

But the authors of the programs, despite the ban

and D., still decided to release
“your creations and perpetuate your names.
This ‘forced Soviet lecturers to fold
disclaims all responsibility for the content
‘programs, sending a letter about this to “Izve-
©tiya Ts.I.V.”

Let's move on to pointing out the shortcomings and
makhov program. We are far from the thought of using
draw all their content, but we have some
Let's note everything. Number 1 includes programs
On a number of sciences: on the history of literature Pa-
Ushkin gives a detailed summary of the contents
zhaniya of the first three lectures, must-
chtsikh give an account of the methods of science (method
‘exceptional tendentiousness) and lit-
culture of primitive communism, Afterbirth"
she is extremely interesting and involving
ethnological data can provide enormous
material for finding out the meaning of the form
in art, but the author believes that. span-
Riat doesn't care about formal content
my works of art and thus sweeps away the works
Potebnya, Alexandra VeseLovsky and Ovsya-
Niko-Kulikovsky, and these works are a lot
give to clarify the method of Marxism and its
superior to other methods. It is necessary
indicate that all authors take Marx's method,
like a diagram, and all the material is distributed
according to 4& stages of economic development:
communism, mother-in-law capitalism, social
‚lism. This is how Stanishevsky sets out the super-
modernist history. For example: historical
ria of the Athenian League goes next to him

about RTR of the German Empire. Author
this says that all nations are obliged
walk the same path. Timid reader

th.

PROLETARIAN CULTURE.

37

and wonders if this is so, then
“Why are you decreeing socialism for us,
but it was not in Rome or Greece. Exactly
This is how German bourgeois historians build
'his presentation, which caused one caustic
Marx's remark in one of the notes
in the 1st volume about the main method-
Momsen's logical fallacy. In Izvestia
two notes 16 history are given, with
about the first edition itself’ says that it
rejected . 1 I

Kashintsev promises with his course geographical
phy “to give the foundations of a socialist world-
pony beckoning." It comes from the well-known pre-
words: “Towards a critique of political economics”
mii", but he remained unknown to accurate
Marx's remarks in Capital about the meaning
geographical environment. According to his program
Of all the sciences, geography is the most important, because...
“the new geography must give a picture
human society from bottom to top, from
economics to aesthetics." "Everything should be
registered." Geography should give a map
the mud of the “tense” atmosphere of the eve
war,” and this picture involved
“world aliens” also repent
characters—United States of America
and Japan,” the author reveals his fabrications
for something new in science, but, alas, modern technology is alien to him.
variable graphography with its ramifications on
departments. Does he know the concept of art?
governmental landscape with which it deals
anthropogeography, or the term “island”
Bruna. We're afraid not. Okunov in his
natural history course promises to introduce
course basic concepts about nature; the mostsame
the program promises to introduce such
interesting things like; gifts of the earth
primitive man, with natural
Varami. Parasites, saprophytes and symbiosis
are set out for the discovery of America. Econo-
the mic robbery of America became a factor
primary accumulation and therefore there was no
the phenomenon of parasitism, etc. Zhukovsky
“steadily decided to take the path of innovation
stavva, on the path of liberation of ‘mathematics from
the bourgeois heat of mold and its revival.”
And this is stated immediately after the indication
for lack of material for our purpose.
The very same Zhukovsky programs in mathematics
mathematics and physics, especially the first one,
styled Homeric laughter in Soviet institutions
expectations.

Enough though. Mom is getting scared
for proletarian culture. However, still
one note; the last one. Unrecognized
its pioneers went so far as to whip out
gave themselves the right to print advertisements
and modestly turned Izvestia into an organ,
where bourgeois firms can print volumes
phenomena about their operations, about the delivery of trade
new premises and about the dead. S, D.

The editors of the journal ask you to send them work journals for review.
and eborniki prolegarian writers and poets.
‘

a PROLETARIAN CULTURE. LNo. 2

-

_EDITIONS. | 2

a b =) m V and I. K-ta" No. 14r a review of the first appeared
‘a book from our magazine: signed by V. 3. The essence of this review is form-
is translated as follows:

“The general nature of the magazine “Prol. Culture?—eclectic, unyielding
zhanny, bears the imprint of predatory tendencies, reflecting not so many times.
the flourishing of proletarian creativity, ‘how much effort is divorced from the proletarian
the masses of the intelligentsia",

This is the entire tone of the review. `The level of her polemics can be characterized
the following excerpts from it.

By. regarding the expression ba both classes go in different ways to
world socialism”, and these paths were listed - economic, political
tic; cultural struggle, the author says that. "it is difficult for a Marxist to understand
the existence of different paths to the implementation of socialism; maybe just
we are talking about different means to facilitate the historical process,” it. d. Marxism
for the author it comes down to using the word “means” and not “path”. K. 3.
should have been ‘a little bit. to delve into the essence of Marxism and the speeches of our neighbors
closest comrades, to show off what they write, and not to appeal to the brand without meaning
sismu.

Regarding the editorial expression, “we believe that the collective power pro-
tariat will overcome everything, achieve everything,” the author says: “Only can believe
a representative of a religious movement, a Marxist can be convinced.” mostly
some kind of empty-headed schismatic, wholly occupied not with the meaning, but with the letter
words

The editors’ words are taken—“to give the class a holistic education, it is immutable
guiding the collective will and thinking can only be the development of self-
sustainable spiritual culture." The message is clear: the working class must develop
to create your culture. Author. reviews, writes:

“The editors... see the task. Proletkult in the “elaboration” of proletarian culture
tours. Already this formulation of the question causes bewilderment in the reader who is accustomed
why use the Marxist method of thinking, Maybe speech 06 0600-
understanding of the existing elements of proletarian culture and social
research for its further development; but, not oh. production." This is where the author SEES the “vul-
tarno-saboteur's point of view of the editors.

Not to mention the fact that the generalization of cultural elements is one of the
processes to develop it, no proletarian organization can or should
refuse to participate in the creative work of the proletariat; and denote production
This is culture as a “vulgar-conspiratorial” task, to deprive the worker of his
rights to it are capable only of those who are very embittered against the proletariat and
ligent. :‚

Let's look at enough examples. A lower level of controversy is presented,
It's hard for yourself. The editors wouldn't, of course. and mention this review if
she did not appear, inexplicably, in Central Ortan.

Pro. such critics K. Kautsky wrote long ago: “try to reason with
stupidity and malice are in vain. We could write until our fingers are calloused, and that’s itWe can’t cope with this matter.”

Y
TT 74 &

Publisher—Editor—

Organization, bureau for convening all Russia. conf. Editorial board.
span. k.-pr. organizations.

Second State Printing House. Trekhprudny, 9.